# 4

## Basis Fields

A vector ﬁeld may be written as a linear combination of basis vector ﬁelds. If n is the dimension, then any set of n linearly independent vector ﬁelds may be used as a basis. The coordinate basis X is an example of a basis.1 We will see later that not every basis is a coordinate basis: in order to be a coordinate basis, there must be a coordinate system such that each basis element is the directional derivative operator in a corresponding coordinate direction.

Let e be a tuple of basis vector ﬁelds, such as the coordinate basis X. The general vector ﬁeld v applied to an arbitrary manifold function f can be expressed as a linear combination

v(f)(m)=e(f)(m) b(m)=

i

ei(f)(m)bi(m), (4.1)

where b is a tuple-valued coeﬃcient function on the manifold. When expressed in a coordinate basis, the coeﬃcients that specify the direction of the vector are naturally expressed as functions bi of the coordinates of the manifold point. Here, the coeﬃcient function b is more naturally expressed as a tuple-valued function on the manifold. If b is the coeﬃcient function expressed as a function of coordinates, then b = b ◦ χ is the coeﬃcient function as a function on the manifold.

The coordinate-basis forms have a simple deﬁnition in terms of the coordinate-basis vectors and the coordinates (equation 3.40). With this choice, the dual property, equation (3.41), holds without further fuss. More generally, we can deﬁne a basis of one-forms ˜e that is dual to e in that the property

˜ei(ej)(m)=δji (4.2) is satisﬁed, analogous to property (3.41). Figure 4.1 illustrates the duality of basis ﬁelds.

1We cannot say if the basis vectors are orthogonal or normalized until we introduce a metric.

