Thailand,  Philippines  and  Indonesia  in particular,  identifying  known  experts  at the national, subnational and community level.  The  survey  and  interviews  with key  informants  asked  key  questions  to regional experts on violent extremism to ascertain if hostile sentiments espoused are exacerbating insecurities for women.

The survey was made available in English,  Bahasa,  Thai  and  Tagalog.  We used the Qualtrics platform to facilitate the ease of dissemination and response from home computers, iPads or mobile phone  survey  options.  Qualtrics,  one  of the most widely used research platforms, supports  the  implementation  of  both large-scale survey and experimental study  designs.  It  is  administered  online with  responses  gathered  into  a  central and privacy protected database that only the approved researchers have access to.

The platform allows for the easy migration of data into various statistical packages,  including  STATA,  the  main statistical  analysis  package  that  we  will use  to  analyse  the  data.  A  limitation of  this  study  is  that  we  were  unable to  translate  the  survey  in  all  ASEAN languages, and there is a selection bias in that we are focussing the survey in areas of the region that most experience violent extremism and terrorism. However, through  our  networks,  where  possible, we disseminated the survey throughout all ASEAN countries.

It  is  important  to  note  the  limitations of  this  six-month  study.  Although  the survey was disseminated among all member  states,  the  majority  of  expert respondents  came  from  Indonesia,  the Philippines and Thailand. While this can be  regarded  as  highly  selective  rather than  representative,  it  is  important  to note that Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand are the countries that continue to face the most pressing threat of ongoing violent extremism and conflict.

This  is  with  the  exception  of  Myanmar. Given the current political circumstances and  challenges  posed  by  COVID-19,  on top of the short project time span, it was unfeasible to include Myanmar within the scope  of  this  study.  It  is  also  important to  note  that  the  data  derived  from  the surveys and interviews were based on the perceptions of  experts  and  key  informants, who  are  involved  in  peacebuilding,  and on P/CVE strategies throughout the region. As a result, it is important to note the subjectivity of responses.

Figure 1: Age by gender of respondents



Male

OVER 50

Female

41-50

31-40

25-30

0

5

10

15

20

