# Promotional Materials

A  good  promotional  strategy  should  include  multiple  facets,  from  physical  materials  to  digital communications.  Below,  we've  compiled  a  table  of  promotional  materials  you  might  use  on campus, and examples of each type.

Table 7.1. Types of promotional materials

|Communication Channel|Medium|Examples|
|---|---|---|
|Direct communications|Physical or digital|meetings, consultations, listening sessions, email lists|
|Indirect communications|Primarily digital|websites, videos, news articles, newsletters, social media posts,|
|Messaging|Physical or digital|brochures, posters, signs, booklets|
|Events|Physical or digital|presentations, webinars, seminars, panels, training sessions|
|Physical digital|or|Interactive OER'petting zoos,' games, exhibits, surveys|
|Goodies|Primarily physical|pens, notepads, bookmarks, stickers, buttons, etc|


Get in contact with partners at your institution to learn more about the processes and options available  to  you  and  how  you  can  best  leverage  the  support  at  your  disposal.  If  you  have  a marketing team available to you that orders pens and other materials for campus events, get in contact with them about their vendors and how you can leverage their existing workflows for ordering materials to support your OER Program. This might be as simple as ordering buttons and posters through your University Printing Office, or it may require you to browse a third party's marketing catalog or to create materials yourself, if you lack funding for your work.

# Annual Events

Creating promotional materials and graphics can make your OER program recognizable on your college's campus, but just because you've created materials doesn't mean that people will find or learn from them. As a program manager, you will need to find ways to implement your messaging and  events  on  campus.  Leveraging  annual  events  like  Open  Education  Week  in  March  and International Open Access Week in October can ground your work in a given time of year and focus  your  programming  around  a  topic  or  theme  (Open  Education  Global,  n.d.;  SPARC,  n.d.). The  Open  Education  Week  website  lists  past  events  and  provides  downloadable  promotional materials to help you kickstart your event planning and coordination. If these weeks regularly conflict with other events at your institution, that's okay. You can celebrate Open Education Week the week before or after it falls. So long as you are consistent in the general time you hold these events, they will still gain recognition at your institution and faculty will come to expect them.

