# 2. General Profile of MSMEs

In July 2020, the survey established a general profile of the MSMEs interviewed. The respondents updated the interviewers on the status of their business in each subsequent  phase.  Respondents  whose  business had permanently closed were only asked the reasons for closing (Section 2.4) and about  government assistance  programs  (Section  7). The  demographics of respondents and business characteristics (i.e., the proportions)  remained  roughly  the  same  across  all three survey phases.

Business characteristics. Business size was determined  by  the  number  of  staff  at  the  time  of interview. Following Government Decree number 25/ GOV, firms with five or less staff are microenterprises, those with six - 50 staff are small, and those with 51 - 99 staff are medium.

Micro and small enterprises made  up  most  of the respondents. Approximately 58% were microenterprises,  40%  were  small,  and  only  two

Figure 2.1: Surveyed MSMEs by size across sectors (%)



2

1

4

1

100

37

80

40

40

50

60

40

62

58

56

49

20

0

All MSMEs

Tourism

Handicraft/Textile

Agriculture

Micro

Small

Medium

percent  were  medium. The  tourism  MSME  sample included a higher percentage of microenterprises than the other two sectors. All of the tourism and handicraft/ textile MSMEs interviewed were registered, or formal, constituting  approximately  71%  of  the  sample. The remainder (agriculture MSMEs) were informal, as they were individual farmers.

The geographic focus of sampling sought to emulate the concentration of businesses nationwide. Interviewed  MSMEs  in  the  tourism  and  handicraft/ textile sectors were mainly based in Vientiane Capital, Luang Prabang, and Champasack provinces. For the agriculture sector, MSMEs were based in 12 provinces and  the  capital.  Annex  1  provides  the  locations  of respondents who participated in all three phases.

The tourism sub-sectors interviewed included lodging,  restaurants  and  bars,  and  tour  operators. Most  handicraft/textile  respondents  were  involved in production, with the remaining in sales.  The main products  are  silk  and  cotton  products  such  as bags, clothes, and scarves, bamboo wicker, pottery, carvings, and mulberry  paper  products.  MSMEs interviewed in the agriculture sector focused on the cultivation and trade of cash crops such as vegetables, cassava, banana, sugar cane, tea and coffee, livestock or fish, and rice.

Demographics of respondents. The  overall  gender ratio  of  interviewees  was  slightly  skewed  towards men  (52%).  Within the handicraft/textile sector, 80%  were  women,  while  the  agriculture  sector was  dominated  by  male  representatives  (74%). The tourism  sector  respondents  were  51%  men.  Most of  the  interviewees  were  MSME  owners  (80%), followed  by  managers  (17%),  while  the  other  three percent  comprised  positions  such  as  accountant, assistant, and deputy manager. More than half (58%) of interviewees were 36 to 55 years old; the youngest respondent was 23 and the eldest was 83.

