Figure 4.2. Operating Capacity under the FIT Scheme

MW



400

Waste materials

350

Biogas

300

250

Construction wood waste

200

Generalwood (IOMWs)

150

Generalwood (<lOMW)

50

Unutilisedwood {2MWs)

Unutilised wood (< 2MW)

2016

12-13

2014

2015

2017

2018

2019

2020

FIT = feed-in-tariff.

Source: METI (2021a).

The newly approved capacity has stagnated lately because some strict measures reduced the accumulated idle capacity in the revised FIT Act of 2017. For instance, developers are required to have entered into the grid connection agreement with a utility company for an  FIT  approval  and  to  submit  a  business  plan  for  assessment  of  feasibility  and sustainability.  As  a  result,  the  approved  biomass  power  capacity  is  about  160MW  on average in FY2018 and FY2019.

A recent change in the FIT scheme is that new projects of biomass co-firing with coal in the  category  of  unutilised  wood,  general  wood,  and  construction  wood  waste  are  no longer eligible for the FIT scheme from FY2019. 4 The data collected after implementation of the FIT scheme revealed that the generation costs of these biomass co-firing with coal are lower than the estimated costs of conventional biomass power plants in terms of capital  expenditures,  operation  and  maintenance,  and  fuels.  Hence,  biomass  co-firing with coal does not have a rationale to receive support through the FIT scheme since it could make profits without it. For reference, Figure 4.3 illustrates a biomass co-firing ratio of the major power utilities' coal-fired power plants. Nearly half of the coal-fired power plants  co-combusted  biomass  in  FY2019  and  most  of  them  are  less  than  1%  ratio  of biomass.

4 Biomass of waste materials co-firing with coal is not eligible for the FIT scheme from FY2021.

