Overcoming Barriers to Filipino Women’s Political Representation9

The post-World War II period saw women participating in formal politics and even attempting to form a political party and an alliance supporting President Ramon Magsaysay’s candidacy for the presidency (He served as president from 1953 to 1957), while the advent of the martial law period in 1972 witnessed feminist movements. Roces (2012, 6) attributes this to the burgeoning student movement and activism, so much so that by the time Marcos declared martial law, women were prepared to take on the resistance. Though inspired by North America’s second-wave feminists, Filipino women were also drawn to the era’s discourses and contexts, such as the Vietnam War and the civil rights movement.

The women’s movement continued to flourish in the Cory Aquino regime (1986–1992). The democratic transition provided political opportunity structures and venues ensuring women’s access to the state and nonstate spheres. The drafting of the 1987 Constitution was one such opportunity. The movement managed to advocate for important provisions paving the way for women’s rights legislation from the 1980s to the present. The provision in the 1987 Constitution mandates the state to recognize “the role of women in nation building and shall ensure the fundamental equality before the law of men and women” (Article 2, Section 14). This provision is said to be unique and is not even found in other countries’ charters (Masilungan n.d.).

The post-Marcos period advanced the participation of women not only in civil society and nongovernment organizations but also in formal politics and bureaucracy. Several women from the movement joined formal politics, while others were invited by the Aquino and Ramos governments (1992–1998) to executive posts. The entry of women activists, NGO leaders, and those from the academe ensured that the new democracy would significantly help push measures promoting women’s rights and gender equality. The House of Representative (HOR) and Philippine Commission on Women (PCW)’s “How to Be a Gender-Responsive Legislator” (2021, 52) listed several recent laws responding to women’s empowerment and gender equality.

- • Republic Act No. 11313: Safe Spaces Act (April 17, 2019)
- • Republic Act No. 11210: 105-Day Expanded Maternity Leave Law (March 11, 2019)


