|Fish species on IUCN Red List| |
|---|---|
|Potosi Pupfish|Cyprinodon alvarezi|
|La Palma Pupfish|Cyprinodon longidorsalis|
|Butterfly Splitfin|Ameca splendens|
|Golden Skiffia|Skiffia francesae|


Table 6.1: Four fish species on IUCN Red List "Extinct in the Wild" held in public aquariums.

Public  aquariums,  because  of  their  inhouse expertise, can act quickly to collect and breed rare fish. Actions to prevent the extinction of the Barrens  Topminnow include monitoring populations and propagating  and  stocking  juveniles  into existing or newly created spring habitats. The  Tennessee  Aquarium  assisted  with propagations  and  developed  a  program called  'Keeper  Kids,'  where  students  on spring break help feed the Barrens Topminnows in a behind-the-scenes experience.



Figure 6.3: Photo of the critically endangered Butterfly Splitfin (Ameca spendens).

The  breeding  colonies  of  the  Butterfly  Splitfin  (Figure  6.3)  at  the  London  Zoo  and  elsewhere  serve  as  ark populations  essential  to  the  survival  of  this  species.  Butterfly  Splitfins  are  endemic  to  the  Río  Ameca  in western Mexico and almost extinct in the wild. Actions such as nonnative fish removal, stream restoration, and sanctuary designation may take decades before eventual introduction and survival in the wild. The Tennessee Aquarium is part of a large partnership to guide hatchery augmentation and recovery of the rarest darter in North America (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 2019). The Conasauga Logperch ( Percina jenkinsi ),  a  federally endangered darter (Percidae), is found only in a 30-mile (48 km) stretch of the Conasauga River in Georgia and Tennessee (Moyer et al. 2015).



The Banggai Cardinalfish ( Pterapogon kauderni ), a small, endangered tropical cardinalfish  in  the  family  Apogonidae,  is now bred and displayed in numerous public aquariums  after  overharvest  in  the  wild drove  wild  populations  to  near  extinction. Consequently,  most  Banggai  Cardinalfish sold  to  hobbyists  in  the  United  States  and European  Union  today  are  captive  bred.

THE LAKE STURGEON

Figure 6.4: Lake Sturgeon (Acipenser fulvescens).

