CHAPTER  7.

# TEXAS

MICHELLE  REED

# COURSE MARKING DRIVERS

I've worked at the University of Texas at Arlington (UTA) for the last three years as Open Education Librarian  and  was  recently  promoted  to  the  leadership  team  as  Director  of  Open  Educational Resources following a half-million-dollar investment in OER from university administration. It was in  my  first  year  as  Open  Education  Librarian  that  the  Texas  Legislature  passed  Senate  Bill  810 (SB810),  which  requires  institutions  of  higher  education  across  the  state  to  provide  searchable information to students about OER-only courses. A strong definition of OER was provided:

'teaching, learning, and research resources that reside in the public domain or have been released under an intellectual property license that allows for free use, reuse, modification, and sharing with others, including full  courses,  course  materials,  modules,  textbooks,  streaming  videos,  tests,  software,  and  any  other  tools, materials, or techniques used to support access to knowledge.'

However, Texas was not given a very long implementation window. The bill passed in June 2017, effective immediately, with a compliance deadline of Spring 2018. We in higher education know a change of this scope, and impacting as many stakeholders as course marking does, takes longer. A recent  survey  commissioned  by  the  Digital  Higher  Education  Consortium  of  Texas  (DigiTex)  and administered in May 2019 shows only 59 respondents of the 158 two-and four-year institutions that received the statewide survey have a course marking solution in place. The findings were presented in Open Educational Resources (OER) in Texas Higher Education, 2019 . 1

1. Jimes, C., Karaglani, A., Petrides, L., Rios, J., Sebesta, J., & Torre, K. (2019). Open Educational Resources (OER) in Texas Higher Education, 2019 . Austin, TX: Digital Higher Education Consortium of Texas and Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board; Half Moon Bay, CA: Institute for the Study of Knowledge Management in Education.

