

Figure 8.15 Typical black-and-white Bedouin tent.



Figure 8.16 Typical three-poled Bedouin tent

black  and  white,  with  a  little  red-dyed  wool  for decoration. This wool comes from sheep and camels, whose wool is known for its softness and, when left undyed, for its beautiful natural colors.$^{4}$^{9}

Figure 8.16 indicates the complex nature of the interior of a Bedouin tent. The inside area is divided into many parts, each of them with its specific use. It is important to note that a 'well-to-do' Bedouin  tent  like  the  one  shown  in  figure  8.16  indicates  the  higher  status  of  the  family  living  in  it than  that  of a  family  living  in  the  humbler,

49 For details, see Al-Sabah, Ibjad, 17.

three-poled tent in figure 8.15. These images also show that different areas are used by men and by women.$^{5}$^{0} For example, the tent contains a space which is allocated to female weavers, like a studio where they perform their craft and practice their skills.$^{5}$^{1} Thus, in the Bedouin society, the tent is a not only a signifier of social relationships and family status but also of gender roles. It is, therefore, an extremely important space because here women make items that support their family or tribe.

While the function of the textile is to create and demarcate the Bedouin space, the way the space is constructed  influences  the  way  the  nomads  live and the way the family or the tribe  is  perceived by  the  outside  world.  The  textile  is,  therefore, structuring the formation of a private and a public identity by delineating the space: the outside, nonpatterned  textiles  are  public,  while  the  inside, patterned  textiles  are  private.$^{5}$^{2}  We  can  infer,

50 See  also  Dickson, The Arab of the Desert ,  66-67;  and Canavan, 'Applications of Textile Products,' 541. Here, Canavan explains that dividers were parts of women's possessions, accompanying them into marriage, as well as 'testimony of a tribe's wealth and prestige.'

51 Refah Al Raheel, interviewed by Rana Al-Ogayyel, Riyadh, 2017.

52 While the outside of the traditional tents is black and without much pattern except for stripes, the inside of

