one of the two players is allowed to communicate with the other player (i.e., there is “one-way communication”) the players coordinate their choices 96% of the time! However, with simultaneous two-way communication between the two players, they coordinate only 42% of the time! Explain what happened.

- 10. We demonstrated how to solve for the Penalty Kick game’s mixed-strategy equilibrium. Suppose you were new to the game of soccer (or football) and assigned to play the goalie position. After watching the following YouTube video, what strategy might make the most sense for you to adopt on penalty kicks: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3yWZZR9ZodI.

- 11. The map below identifies (with red markers) the locations of gas stations in Salt Lake City, Utah (Utah’s capital city). Do these gas station locations depict a pure strategy equilibrium for the Hotelling Game? Explain.

- 12. In this chapter, we learned that when an individual acquires private information about something, this added information does not necessarily make the individual better off. In particular, when an individual (say, Player 1) acquires private information about something of common interest to both himself and another individual (say, Player 2), and Player 2 knows Player 1 has acquired this private information, Player 1 could actually be made worse off as a result of Player 2 changing her strategy in response to the fact that she knows Player 1 now has additional information. Whew! Can you think of a real-life example where the acquisition


BEHAVIORAL ECONOMICS PRACTICUM 175

