# Top10 tuna fishing nations (2018)



Catch (metrictons)

Figure 12.8: Top tunafishing nations based on landings ofseven tuna species in 2018. Long description.

Today most tuna are captured in purse seines, and longlines are the second-most-common gear. Indonesia
and Japan are consistently the top-two fishing nations (Figure 12.8). Five of the top tuna fishing nations-Japan,
Taiwan (Republic ofChina), Spain, Korea, and the USA-have large fishing fleets that operate far from their home
waters, whereas the others have large local or regional fleets. New technologies, such as sonar, have made tuna
fishing much more effectivee In response, the use of spotter planes is banned for fishing Atlantic Bluefin Tuna in
the Mediterranean (Di Natale 2020). Many recreational tuna boats also use spotter planes in the eastern Atlantic
Ocean, although the traditionalist harpoon fishers shun the technology (Whynott 1995; Decker 2016).

The Pacific Ocean has consistently had the highest landings, about 66% of the world's tuna catch. The western
and central Pacific Ocean is where many artisanal and industrial fisheries overlap. For the small island nations,
fishing provides a major source of income, jobs, and food security (Bell et al. 2019). Yet, Pacific island nations
have not fully realized the economic potential with the global tuna industry, despite the fact that 80% ofit is
caught within their exclusive economic zones (EEZs, i.e., within 200 miles). The 1982 United Nations Convention
on the Law of the Sea awarded coastal states sovereign rights to (1) exploit and manage all living resources
within their EEZ, (2) exclude distant water fleets in favor of developing their own fleets, and (3) charge distant
water fleets rent for access. Eight island nations-the Federated States of Micronesia, Kiribati, Marshall Islands,
Nauru, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands and Tuvalu, which support 80% of the purse-seine catch in
their waters-formed an alliance and require collective bargainingto set rents for access by foreign vessels. The
alliance also prioritized domestic over foreign vessels and set limits on the number of purse-seine vessels. The
issue of sovereignty over tuna that migrate freely among EEZs remains a concern for small island nations (Bailey
etal. 2012). Working to establish fair and equitable allocations of total allowable catches to the many parties will
require more equitable sharing with the larger tuna-fishing nations.

282 Conserving Tuna: The Most Commercially Valuable Fish on Earth

