Restrictions on Land Ownership by Foreigners in Selected Jurisdictions

members should specify this in their schedule of specific commitments.+ Reservation of the ability
to lease or own land to nationals is one such treatment; therefore, it should be listed in the
schedule as a limitation on national treatment.」 This applies to services that the GATS covers.6

Somejurisdictions do not list foreign land ownership on their schedules, but restrictitfornational
security or similar interests.? Such jurisdictions include Australia and Finland (national interest),,
Chile and Greece (border area), Russia (national security), and Spain (zones of interest to
national defense and the military). Several other jurisdictions that also restrict ownership for
national security purposes have entered restrictions on their GATS schedules. Such jurisdictions
include Argentina and Mexico (border area), Iran (sensitive areas), South Korea (military bases
and installation protection zones), Taiwan (lands within fortified and military areas and adjacent
to the national frontiers), and Turkey (designated military zones).

There are other various restrictions on foreigners' land ownershipp Figure 1 below shows in
simplified format the surveyed jurisdictions that impose particular categories of restrictions. On
page4,a color-coded map sets forth which jurisdictions permit foreign acquisition, prohibitit,or
impose restrictions. A Comparative Summary Table beginning on page 5 presents the essential
findings of our study for each jurisdiction. Lastly, the textual surveys for eachjurisdiction provide
further detail.

+Id.art.XX.
SJulia Nielson & Daria Taglioni,A Quick Guide to the GATS and Mode4, OECD, World Bank, IOM Seminar on
Trade and Migration (Nov. 12-14, 2003), at 11, https:/ /perma.cc/B8XW-LNZ4.
WWorld Trade Organization, The General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS): Objectives, Coverage and
Disciplines, Question 3, https:// perma.cc/4)7Y-WAG7.. Itstates, "[t]he GATS applies in principle to all service
sectors, with two exceptions.
7SeeGATS art. XIV General Exceptions.

TheLaw Library of Congress

2

