this content "very often", 71% were from
Indonesia and 28.6% were from Thailand.
When asked about how often participants
had heard of groups expressing the
importanceofmenaccompanyingwomen
when travelling to conflict zones, more
respondents had heard this message
with a higherfrequency ("always" or"very
often",37.1%) than those who had rarely or
never heard it (34%). Forty-six per cent of
respondents from Indonesia heard this
messagewithahigherfrequency,followed
by the Philippines (38%) and Thailand
(15%). When grouping the answer options
of "always", "very often" and "sometimes"
66% of respondents said they had heard
groups stress the importance of women
being accompanied by men when
travelling to conflict areas.

Figure 5: Importance of a male
guardian accompanying women when
travelling to conflict zones



In the second part of the survey, using
a five-point Likert scale from "strong-
ly agree" to "strongly disagree", partic-
ipants were presented with a series of
statements regarding how worried they
were about intolerant content being es-
poused in the offline space by violent ex-

tremist groups. Most respondents (77%)
agreed (combining both "strongly agree"
and "agree") that they were worried about
intolerance in their communities, partic-
ularly respondents from Indonesia and
the Philippines. Almost all respondents in
the sample (93%) agreed that they were
worried about violent extremism in their
countries. This appeared to be a general
concern among both men and women
as 85% of men and 95% ofwomen agreed
that they were concerned.

Significantly, 89% of respondents agreed
that religious extremism would impede
women's rights. Half of the participants
in Indonesia agreed they were concerned
that religious extremism would hamper
women'srights,27%in Philippinesand16%
in Thailand. Both men (84.6%) and women
(89.2%) expressed their concerns on this
issue. Furthermore, 91% of respondents
agreed that religiousextremism prioritizes
men's rights over women's rights _ 93.1%
of women strongly agreed with the
statement compared to 6.90%ofmen.

For example, one interviewee from
Indonesia observed that the teachings
of extremism have entered schools, such
as high schools, and have also begun to
penetrate student organizations. She
observed that the teachings "spread from
the Middle East, bringing misogynistic
teachings towards women as part of their
subjugation strategy". She acknowledged
that it was part of the organizational
strategy where women appeared to look
empoweredd

"However, this is just
manipulation; behind it is the
practice of misogyny, women's
consciousness, their bodies and
minds are controlled, even though

Gender Analysis of Violent Extremism and the Impact of COVID-19 on Peace and Securityin ASEAN

31

