MOHAVE COMMUNITY COLLEGE

B10181

For use with CarolinaBLU" stain:

|Tube|BamHI-Hindlll restriction enzyme mixture|Restriction Buffer-RNase|Suspect 1 DNA|Suspect 2 DNA|Evidence AorB|H2O|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|S1|3uL|3uL|10uL| | |2uL|
|S2|3uL|3uL| |10uL| |2uL|
|EAorEB|3uL|3uL| | |10uL|2uL|


- 3. Mix reagents by pipetting gently up and down.
- 4. Incubate all of the reaction tubes for 1 hour at37 OC.


NOTE: Your instructor will freeze your completed restriction digests at -20 0C until the next lab period.

# III. Electrophorese Digests

Reagents:

Restriction digests from PartII,on ice

10x loading dye, 10 uL

# Supplies and Equipment

Gel electrophoresis chamber with agarose gel in gel tray, power supply

1-20 uL Micropipette and pipet tips

# Load the Gel

- 1. Use a micropipette to add 2uL of 10x loading dye to a reaction tube. Use the pipet tip and gently pipet up
and down a couple of times to mix the 10x loading dye with the digested DNA. Usea new pipet tip and repeat
for each digest.
- 2. Use a micropipette to load the contents of each reaction tube (20 uL total) into a separate well in the gel.
Usea fresh pipet tip for each reaction tube and write down the order in which the samples are loaded.


NOTE: Be careful not to punch the tip of the pipet through the bottom or side of the well.

# While loading,

steady the pipet over the well using two hands. You may wish to place one or both elbows on
thelab bench to steady your hands.

be careful to expel any air in the pipet tip end before loading the gel. Ifan air bubble formsa
cap over the well, the sample will flow into the buffer around the edges of the well.

133

