

Record your observations in Table 13.2.

# Table 13.2. Effect of cations on flocculation ofa clay suspension.

|Added cation|Relative Size &Settling Rates of Floccules|
|---|---|
|K+| |
|Na+| |
|Ca2+| |
|A13+| |
|Check| |


# Activity 4. Determining CEC by replacing adsorbed cations.

In this activity, you will titrate the filtrate with a 0.01 molar solution of NaOH using phenolphthalein as an indicator.
Phenolphthalein changes from colorless to faint pink when the quantity of OH ions added via the NaOH equals the
quantity of H* ions in the solution (that is, when the pH is raised to 7). For this activity, assume the soil samples have
been extracted and the filtrates are now available for analysis.

- 1. Place 10 ml of each filtrate into separate 125 ml flasks. This 10 ml quantity is the amount of filtrate from 1.0 gram of
soil.
- 2. Add 10 drops of the phenolphthalein indicator.
- 3. Titrate the extract with the NaOH solution to a faint pink endpointt The titration must be done very carefully to
obtain meaningful results. Ifyou put too much NaOH in the flask and geta bright pink color, discard the solution
and repeat the process. In the table below, record the milliliters of NaOH solution used to achieve the endpoint.


Calculate the CEC and record your data in Table 13.3.

Here is an example of how to calculate the CEC, assuming 2.5 mL of NaOH was required to achieve an end point.
The reaction occurring during titration is

Thus, one mole of NaOH reacts with one mole ofHt. Therefore, at the phenolphthalein end point, moles ofNaOH added
= moles ofH+ in solution.

The solution of 0.01 molar NaOH contains1 cmol charge per liter (1 cmolc/L). Therefore 2.5 mL NaOH contains

1L 0.01 mol NaOH 1mole 100 cmole
cmol@ofNaOH 二 2.5mL NaOH X X X X 0.0025 mole NaOH
1000mL 1L 1molNaOH 1mole

Thus,theCECis

114 Soil Colloids

