consumption onsite or offsite. Food Service Establishments (FSE) refers to the business
engaged in the Food Service Industry. For purposes of the survey, the FSEis segmented
into:

full-service restaurants, with full menu and waiting service;

limited-service restaurants or quick service restaurants (QSR), with full menu but
pay-as-you-order such as fast food or turo-turo types

cafes/bars/pop-ups (selected menu with few chairs and tables);

kiosks and stalls (purely retail, to be consumed elsewhere); and

catering or 100% home delivery.

Full-service restaurants, limited-service restaurants and cafes/bars/pop-ups may also
offer"to go" or"take away" services.











Figure 1.FSI Segmentation

b. Plastic. The Baseline Study looked into the extent of Plastic use of FSEs in Dasmarinas
City. Plastics are categorized by food grade.'The six food grades are 1) Polyethylene
Terephthalate: clear, tough plastic such as soft drinks, juice and water, (2) High Density
Polyethylene: white or colored plastic such as milk containers (3) Polyvinyl Chloride:
hard rigid clear plastic such as cordial bottles; (4) Low Density Polyethylene: soft,
flexible such as squeezable bottles; 5) Polypropylene: hard but flexible plastics such as
microwave ware; takeaway containers, some yogurt orjam containers and hinged lunch
boxes,and (6) Polystyrene: rigid, brittle plastics such as small tubes and margarineor
butter container. See Figure 1. Plastic litter found in the rivers are of categories 1-6.There
are also other plastics that do notfall under food grade 1-6.

Filipino word for restaurants wherea menu ofcooked or ready-to-eat food are on display and clients pointto their choiceoffoodand
pay as they take their food totheir tables or askfor take-out packaging.

Food grade plastics referto plastic containers, tools or other supplies madeof plastics thatare cleared to beused forfood
preparation, handling, and service.

18

Study on Plastics Use and Waste Managementin the Food Service Industry

