vapor and other gases, making it useless. Only in the vacuum of
space can optical elements be cooled to hundreds of degrees below
freezing and still remain operational.

The first orbiting infrared observatory, launched in 1983, was the
Infrared Astronomical Satellite (IRAS), built as a joint project by
the United States, the Netherlands, and Britain. IRAS was equipped
with a 0.6-meter telescope cooled to a temperature of less than 10
K. For the first time, the infrared sky could be seen as if it were
night, rather than through bright foreground of atmospheric and
telescope emissions. IRAS carried out a rapid but comprehensive
survey of the entire infrared sky over a 10-month period, cataloging
about 350,000 sources of infrared radiation. Since then, several
other infrared telescopes have operated in space with much better
sensitivity and resolution due to improvements in infrared
detectors. The most powerful of these infrared telescopes is the
0.85-meter Spitzer Space Telescope, which launched in 2003. A
few of its observations are shown in Figure_2. With infrared
observations, astronomers can detect cooler parts of Cosmic
objects, such as the dust clouds around star nurseries and the
remnants of dying stars, that visible-light images don'treveal.

# Observations from the Spitzer Space Telescope
(SST).



Flame nebula



CassiopeiaA



Helix nebula

Figure2. These infrared images-a region of star formation, the
remnant of an exploded star, and a region where an old staris

336 Chapter 6 Section 6.5: Observations outside Earth's Atmosphere

