INTERPRETING SIMULTANEITY JUDGEMENTS

321

model (discussed for a binary fit in Section 6.2). Because there are three pos-
sible choices, the appropriate data model (applied at each SOA) is no longer
thebinomial distribution, but rather the multinomial distribution, which can
provide an exact likelihood of obtaining any particular combination of prob-
abilities that divide N choices into three bins when the actual probabilities of
selecting each bin are known (or rather, for fitting purposes, predicted).22

# 11 Dual-Presenntttion SJ Data

Several authors have investigated the use of a dual-presentation SJ task in
which two bimodal stimuli are presented (one after another) and compared,
for example by reporting which one was (most) synchronous (Allan & Kristof-
ferson, 1974; Powers, Hillock, & Wallace, 2009; Roseboom, Nishida, Fujisaki, &
Arnold, 2011). This is form ofwhat would, in classical signal detection theory,
be described as a two-alternative forced choice (specifically the two-interval
forced choice variant). However, that designation is ambiguous (aboutwheth-
er there are two presentations or two response categories) and has been ap-
plied to cases where either or both of the possible qualifying conditions are
met, which is probably why the dual-presentation SJ task has ended up being
given a variety of names (e.g., temporal 2AFC; forced-choice successiveness
discrimination; 2IFC SJ, where the classic SJ is referred to as 2AFC SJ in the
same paper). Iwill label it the 2xSJ.

The simplest form of the 2xS] would have asynchronous standard on every
trial along with a non-synchronous test pair. Based on the kind of observer
models discussed in this chapter, the resulting psychometric function (plotting
the probability ofjudging the standard more synchronous than the test against
the test'sSOA) is U-shaped and centred over the PSS. This approach represents
a reasonable way to derive estimates of inverse precision (i.e., Oat) buta fairly
poorway to estimate the PSS, because having synchronous standard on every
trial provides feedback about objective synchrony. A simple solution isto also
include a range of standards as well as a range of tests, in a roving standard
design.

The observer model can be fitted to data even when both standard and test
are non-zero, as described in detail by Yarrow etal. (2016; see also Garcia-Perez
& Peli, 2014). To present all of the data, it is necessary to plot a function for
each standard SOA (using several standard plots, or asingle 3D plot), whichis
somewhat cumbersome, but not a major obstacle to using the task.Asimple

22 <MultinomialLikelihood g>.

