be used as a good opportunity to learn from each other and increase the capacity of
human rights institutions in various countries.94

What works in other countries, can be learned and developed according to the
situation in Indonesia. 95 Partnerships can be carried out formally through a
memorandum of understanding or with a partnerships agreement for potential
strategic partners.96

# 3.2.6. SDGs Dissemination in Social Media

Information dissemination in the digital era is closely related to the use ofsocial
media. Therefore, the dissemination of the SDGs through social media platforms
owned by the Komnas HAM needs to be optimized as a way to increase public
participation to be active as *agents" of the Komnas HAM in Indonesia. To be able to
achieve this, the community needs to first receive education about the SDGs to clearly
understand the focus of each goal and its derivatives. Once there is a fairly good
understanding at the level of the general public, especially those who interact with the
Komnas HAM's social media, an easier way to report SDGs related to human rights
violations can be formulated

The Komnas HAM, for example, has used social media Instagram, Twitter, and
YouTube. There has been an increase in the frequency of Instagram social media
uploads from 2019-2020 from 111 uploads in 2019 to 198 uploads in 2020. The variety
of content uploaded by the Komnas HAM on Instagram is also increasingly diverse
with the following details:



Diagram 4 Distribution of @komnas.ham Instagram Content (2019-2020)

If observed from the Komnas HAM's Instagram account within the 2019-2020
period, the SDGs have only been mentioned explicitly twice in the following contents:

- 94 See also Komnas HAM, "The NHRI Practice and Experience in Indonesia, Kyrgyzstan, and Palestine
in Supporting Sustainable Development Goals Achievements" (n. 93).
- 95 Ibid.
- 96 Ibid.


18

