CIRCULATING THINGS, CIRCULATING STEREOTYPES

83



FIGURE 4.10 James Gillray, High Change in Bond Street; oulapolitesse dugrande monde [graphic]. Etching on wove paper,
hand-colored.
PUBLISHED BY LONDON, 1796

meant to bewilder the viewer. Satins, silks, ivory,
gigantic eggs, and "artificial" apples describe, in
fact, the things of the trade: expensive and rare
fabrics, on the one hand, strange collectibles and
exotica, on the other. Lavish dresses and embel-
lishments become insignia of wealth, power, and
nonconformity, of a way of life outside the eco-
nomic constraints of the Western civilization. In-
terestingly, such projections were internalized by
eighteenth-century British subjects in the fashion-
able *Turquerie" that allowed the wearers to dis-
play their wealth by wearing Oriental dress, tur-
bans,ottichpuumes.oongapp veils,andflattering
shalvars (figs. 4.9 and4.10). AnotherinfusionofOrr-
entalismin the West, the tradition ofpaintingEuro-
pean figures in Middle Eastern dress, becomes a
form of cultural cross-dressing meant to suggest

misuse of power or excessive wealth (fig. 4.11).
Such cultural imports are difficult to be under-
stood, to use Said's qualification, as expressions of
the Occident's cultural "antipathy toward the
Orient;rather, they reflect the Westssatrratiinn toa
space that connotes difference understood as ex-
traordinariness rather than inferiority

Besides their connotations of magic, exoticism,
andwealth,thethings in theArabianNightsarealso
richbearersof cultural information:asMarinaWar-
ner correctly pointed out, "stories are lodged in
goods"85 and as such, they expand the reader's

# 84 Said, Orientalism, 260.

85 Marina Warner, introduction to Stranger Magic:
Charmed States and the Arabian Nights (London: Chat-
to& Windus, 2011)88.

