322

YARROW

observer model with three parameters captures PSS, sensory noise and an in-
terval bias (i.e., a tendency to select one interval in preference to the other
under uncertainty).

The 2xS] task provides estimates that correlate fairly well with equivalent
parameters estimated using TOJS, SJS, and ternary tasks. However, each trial
takes longer than in those single-presentation tasks, which makes experi-
ments more onerous. There are a few reasons why the roving-standard 2xS] is
still worth considering. Firstly, it asks about synchrony explicitly (unlike the
TOJ) and by requiring relative judgements it reveals a point of maximal syn-
chrony perception (whereas the SJ and ternary tasks often reveal a range of
SOA values that are classified as synchronous). Secondly, it can be added in
to a single-presentation task (as a follow-up question every two trials), which
somewhatmitigates the burden of additional experimental time.Finally, case
can be made thatit will be more resistant to some forms of decision-level bias
(Morgan, Grant, Melmoth, & Solomon, 2015; Morgan, Melmoth, & Solomon,
2013). As with the other tasks I have described, code to fit data from the 2xS]
accompanies this chapter.2s For further information, read the comments there
and consult Yarrow etal. (2016).

# 12 Conclusion

In this chapter, have outlined the benefits of fitting formal observer models
tojudgements about simultaneity, and described how this can be achieved us-
ing Matlab code (see book's GitHub repository). In doing SO, have presented
one particular observer model in some detail, and highlighted the fundamen-
tally subjective nature of thesj task, which requires us to think carefully about
how both the strategic decisions and perceptual sensitivity of a participant
can affect their psychometric function. have gone on to supply a brief over-
view of appropriate models for several closely related timing tasks. I hope
have also provided enough of a tutorial regarding bespoke model fitting and
evaluation to allow the interested reader to go forward and explore their own
models of perceived simultaneity. Modelling may seem intimidating, but in
fact, a good understanding of just a few basic concepts (which is best gained
through practical exploration) will take you a long way, providing tools to
engage more fully with the timing literature. This is an endeavourIwould very
muchencourage!

23 <TwoAFCSimultaneity.sPEq_Multistart_rawdata >.

