The World Bank/PEMSEA Assessment of Policies and Regulations to Guide Country
Dialogue at National Level to Reduce Plastic Waste in the Philippines indicated:

"Despite these efforts, there seemed to be very limited information that shows the
effectiveness ofthe bans on reducing plastics and litter, or even diversion from
landfills in the country. For the majority ofLGUs in the country, however, there
seemed to be no clear documentation and reporting ofprogress and updated
waste data possibly due to the difficulty and complexity ofdata generation and
assessment. Another possible constraintis that the scope ofthe LGU ordinances
vary and covered different kinds ofSUPP, including the exemptions, which makes
integration ofthe various reports, ifavailable, a challenge.

The World Bank/PEMSEA report also recommended that a baseline assessment be
conducted to obtain a better understanding which SUPP are the most prevalent and
problematic in the Philippines and to also identify the sources and extent and impactsof
mismanagement.

b. Extended producer responsibility (EPR). EPR schemes use a combination of regulatory
approaches to extend manufacturers responsibility for single-use plastic products
throughout their life cycle, including to the end-of-life stage. These schemes are aimed
at decreasing the overall environmental impact from a product and its packaging.
The primary responsibility under EPR lies with the producer, who makes design and
marketing decisions. In most European countries, product manufacturers are charged
a fee for every piece of packaging they put onto the market based on the reusability or
recyclability of the packaging, supported by technical analysis. These fees are intended
to cover some or all of the costs of collection, sorting and recycling. Since the recycling
of plastic packaging costs more than ityields, companies will benefit froma more cost-
effective system ofpackaging.

Regulated Storage, Manufacture and Use of
plastics. India required its states to enforce existing
rules on the storage, manufacture, and use of some
single-use plastics in lieu ofa nationwide ban.
Meanwhile, the Department of Environment and
Natural Resources (DENR) isyet to issue a list of
non-environmentally accepted products (NEAP) as
provided in Republic Act 9003 or the Ecological Solid
Waste Management Act, passed a decade ago.This
will include single use plastics in all product forms per
technical advice of the Department ofScience and



Figure 27. Soft drinks can with
the message "Recycle Me"

64

Study on Plastics Use and Waste Managementin the Food ServiceIndustry

