n the case that the distributions were identically distributed with expected value and variance of Ux
and o증, each partner would face the same expected value as before, Ux. But, the variance of their
individual earnings would be (글로+로)//4=로로22 half of what it was before without combining
their businesses. Furthermore, the standard deviation ofthe earnings each partner would face would
be:

And ifn partners joined together, then they would each face the same expected value as before, but
thevariance each partner would receive is0x/Vn. We now illustrate these important results.

Assume that business one's earnings are determined by outcomes associated with the toss ofa fair
coin.If the outcome of the coin toss is tails, the firm pays (loses) $5,000. If the toss is a heads, the
firmwins $8,000. Thus, the firm wins either $8,000 orloses $5,000 and earnson average (.5) (-5,000)
(.5) (8,000) = $1500.

The standard deviation ofthis risky outcomes is:

Furthermore,assuming a normal distribution, 68% of the time, the average outcome will be between
the mean and plus or minus one standard deviation: ($1,500 $6,500) = $8,000 and
($1,500-$6,500) =-$5,000.

Now suppose that two persons decide to combine their operations and share the average of the
outcomes. Then the possible outcomes of two coin tosses are two heads (H, H) which earns on
average $16,000/2 $8,000 and occurs with a probability of .25; two tails (T,T) which earns on average
-$10,000/2=-55,000 and occurs with a probability of .25, and one head and one tail (H,T) or one tail
and one head (T, H) which both earn on average $3,000 /2= $1,500 and each occurs with a probability
of.25.Theexpected value for each of the two players can now can be expressed as:

# (15.22) (.25)(88,000) 十 (.25)(-85,000) 十 (.25)(81,500) 十 (.25)(81,500) $1,500

The two players now receive on average the same as before, $1,500, but consider the standard
deviation ofthe average outcome:

340 Ch.15. Homogeneous Risk Measures

