158

AL-OGAYYELAAD OSKAY



FIGURE 8.15 Typical black-and-white Bedouin tent.



FIGURE 8.16 Typical three-poled Bedouin tent

black and white, with a little red-dyed wool for
decoration. This wool comes from sheep and cam-
els, whose wool is known for its softness and, when
left undyed, for its beautiful natural colors.49

Figure 8.16 indicates the complex nature of the
interior of a Bedouin tent. The inside area is divid-
ed into many parts, each of them with its specific
use. Itis important to note thata "well-to-do" Bed-
ouin tent like the one shown in figure 8.16 indi-
cates the higher status of the family living in it
than that of a family living in the humbler,

49 Fordetails, see Al-Sabah,Ibjad, 17.

three-poled tent in figure 8.15. These images also
show that different areas are used by men and by
women.50 For example, the tent contains a
space
which is allocated to female weavers, like a studio
where they perform their craft and practice their
skills.51 Thus, in the Bedouin society, the tent is a
not only signifier of social relationships and fam-
ily status but also of gender roles. It is, therefore,
an extremely important space because here wom-
en make items that support their family or tribe.

While the function of the textile is to create and
demarcate the Bedouin space, the way the spaceis
constructed influences the way the nomads live
and the way the family or the tribe is perceived
by the outside world. The textile is, therefore,
structuring the formation of private and a public
identity by delineating the space: the outside, non-
patterned textiles are public, while the inside,
patterned textiles are private.52 We can infer,

- 50 See also Dickson, The Arab of the Desert, 66-67; and
Canavan, "Applications of Textile Products," 541. Here,
Canavan explains that dividers were parts of women's
possessions, accompanying them into marriage, as well
as "testimony ofa tribe's wealth and prestige."
- 51 Refah Al Raheel, interviewed by Rana Al-Ogayyel, Ri-
yadh, 2017.
- 52 While the outside of the traditional tents isblack and
without much pattern except for stripes, the inside of


