Probability, Combinatorics and Control

between this and the fact that the development of the underlying wave function for
the whole universe is unique.

Summarizing:

- Definition 1. A universe Uis a chain of states (one state Ut for each moment of
timet), with the property that the transition between adjacent states is always
possible.
- Definition 2. A multiverse M is the set of all possible universes U in the sense of
Definition 1 together with a probability measure on this set.


Itmay of course be said that quantum mechanics should allow for transitions
between all kinds of states, although the probability for most such transitions may be
extremely small. In this extremely simplified treatment, Iwill assume that foragiven
state ata given moment timet, the dynamical laws will only permit transitions toa
very limited number of states at the previous and next moments, which will make the
probabilistic part of the investigation particularly simple. However, modifications are
called for near the endpoints (the Big Bang and the Big Crunch); see Section5.

As it stands, the model presented SO faris too simple to generate any results.IIn
fact, there are no observable differences at all between the states, which mean that
there are no measurable variables which could be related to the (so farnon-
specified) dynamics.

There are of course many different variables which we can choose to enrich this
structure, and which ones to choose must depend on what properties we want to
explain. For explaining the second law of thermodynamics, the obvious choiceisthe
entropy.

# 4.Entropy

According to Boltzmann, the total entropy ofa certain macro-state ata certain
time is given by

(2)

orinversely

(3)

where Q denotes the number of corresponding micro-states and kb is
Boltzmann's constant.

This formula was from the beginning derived for simple cases, like an ideal gas.
Nevertheless, it does represent a kind of universal truth in statistical mechanics: the
number of possible micro-states corresponding to a given macro-state grows expo-
nentially with the entropyy Although there are many complications when one tries
to consider the entropy of the universe as a whole, I will still take itas the starting
pointffo the discussion that the entropy (at a given timet) is an exponential
function of the total entropy as in (3). A more difficult question isif and how the
constant W may vary with time, but for the purpose of the present paper, Iwill
simply letit constant.

One may of course argue that this can only be true when the universe isstill
quite ordered and the entropy is very far from reaching its maximum. But this is
certainly what the situation is like in our universe today, and according to the
computations in [10, 11], itwould take an almost incredibly long time to reach such
a state of maximal entropy. Thus, it will in the following be taken for granted that
this time is much longer than the life-span of our universe.

312

