bea starting point for asking questions too, butI would recommend
against brainstorming as the only strategy towards topic and
question identification since it does not enable students to get to
topics they didn't know existed.

I struggle with getting students to actually read the sources we
find together in our research consultations. They seem to want
to do all the searching first and all the reading later. No matter
how I tell them it's iterative and you need to go back and forth
between reading and searching many many times, the messages
wasn't landing. This chapter is my next iteration in how to talk
about the research process, but really don't now what the secret
recipe is yet. Let me know ifyou think this one lands.

# Types of Sources

I am a big fan of Mike Caulfield's information literacy work (see
the next chapter, SIFTing Information.) Sometimes I have found
my attempts to use his strategies in the classroom were hard for
students. For example, when I've tried the exercise about the
American Academy of Pediatrics and the American College of
Pediatricians (Reflection & Discussion Question 1) without first
talking about professional organizations, students rarely got how
they were different, and it did not build their confidence.

It's hard to identify legitimate professional association ifyou've
never heard of the concept of professional associations. This
chapter may be long, but I felt it was important to enumerate at
least some of the dimensions of the sources they may find, SO that
when we get to Caulfield's SIFT method they are set up for success.

102 Instructor Resources

