ArHomein Exile

To prepare myself for the journey from my home in Canberra, Australia,
I visited the National Library's vast collection of maps. But I could not
find Steinkirche, even in old German records of Silesia. The Polish-
German Gazeteer, which has remarkablelistofold German place-names
in relation to their Polish replacements, and vice versa, gave the names
for many places, including Marzdorf where my mother had worked as
ayyung woman, on an estate near the Oder River. But there was nothing
for Steinkirche. The people assembling the directory must have thoughtit
simply the description ofa stone church. as the name suggests, rather than
the actual name for the place where the church stood.

Obviously it was not an important village. No one in our extended family
could give me the Polish names for rural SteinkircheorofNeumarkt Platz
in the Silesian metropolis. Had Steinkirche been north, east, west or south
of Breslau? In my mind's eye I assumed it to be east- -towards Posen-
mistakenly, SO I was to discover. In answer to one of my many questions,
Irecalled that my mother had once told me thatithad taken her about an
hourby train to travel to the school she attended briefly in Breslau.Itwas
an important clue.

I then rang my cousin, Peter Erlanger, but neither he nor his older sister
could help me. Peter advised me to try to find Steinkirche using my
computer' Internet search engine. It was enlightened advice, and was to
provide me with a key clue. The website yielded a huge list of entries,
mostly concerning stone churches in present-day Germany. But there was
also reference to a 1928 visit by a church official inspecting number of
communities overseen by the Lutheran Church at Strehlen. I had often
heard my mother and her sister refer to acquaintances in Strehlen.

Thearticle about Steinkirche described itas havinga 1264 Polish Catholic
foundation, on a site where pagan sacrifices had taken place. This
seemed to have the ring of truth. The description offered a brief history
of the church and gave illustrations of it in various stages of alteration.
By the seventeenth century, the place had become Lutheran and in the
following 200 years the community' religious confidence expressed itself
architecturally through continual improvements. A church tower with
baroque spire was raised and the interior refurbished with an upper-storey
balcony with pews on three sides.



