MOHAVE COMMUNITY COLLEGE

# Saccharometer DI Water Glucose Solution Yeast Suspension

2 24ml 0ml 4ml
3 12ml 12ml 4ml
4 4ml 12ml 12ml

2 24ml 0ml 4ml
3 12ml 12ml 4ml
4 4ml 12ml 12ml

B10181

# Employing Steps in the Scientific Method:

- 1. Record the Question that is being investigated in this experiment.
- 2. Record a Hypothesis for the question stated above.
- 3. Predict the results of the experiment based on your hypothesis (if/then).
- 4. Perform the experiment below and collect your data.


# Procedure:

- 1. Prepare yeast suspension: Add 7 grams yeast to 50 ml warm tap water. Stir to mix.
Alternatively, you can use the yeast suspension from Part 2. Optional: Add a few drops of
red food coloring to the yeast to increase contrast, allowing easier measuring of the
height of yeast in saccharometers.
- 2. Label 4 test tubes and 4 saccharometers # 1-4. Use a transfer pipette to add the
appropriate amount of glucose and distilled water listed in Table 2 to the corresponding
labeled test tubes.
- 3. Use a transfer pipette to add the appropriate amount ofyeast solution listed in Table 1 to
the corresponding labeled test tubes. It is important to work carefully and quickly after
adding the yeast solution to the glucose and water.
- 4. Carefully pour the contents of the test tubes into the correspondingly labeled
saccharometer, ensuring that the solutions are well mixed.
- 5. Carefully tilt the saccharometers to allow any air bubbles that are trapped in the arms of
the vertical tube to escape.
- 6. Begin the timer for the experiment and measure the size of any bubbles (in mm) that are
trapped in the vertical arms of the saccharometers. Record this measurement as the0 time
point.
- 7. Position the saccharometers on the large plastic tray, positioning them around a plastic
weigh boat to catch any fermentation overflow that may occur.


59

