# 10 THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT

# COPYRIGHT





# COPYRIGHT PROTECTS CREATIVE WORK
YOURS, MINE, EVERYONE'S!





# BUT COPYRIGHT DOESN'T
COVER EVERYTHING



We're all both consumers and creatorsof creative
work. As consumers, we watch movies, listen to
music, read books, and more! As creators, we
take photos, write songs, make videos, etc.

2

Copyright protects creative work, so people can't
generally copy orshare or perform other
people's work without permission.

3

Copyright comes from the Constitution. Its purposeis
to promote more creativity. The ideais that letting
each of us decide what happens to our own creations
will encourage us to keep creating.



Copyright gives a lot of protection, butit also has
limitations. Not everything gets copyright protection.
Facts and ideas are not protected by copyright, neither
are US Government documents, like NASA photos and
reports by federal agencies.



Another limitation of copyrightis "fair use," which
allows usto copy and re-use copyrighted work
without the artist's permissionin certain, limited
ways that are still fairto the creator.



When you re-use portions of someone else's work
fora school project--like using images or songs for
a presentation in class-tthtt's fair use situation.
You don'tneed the author's permission.



All creative work isprotected by copyright as soon as
it's written down or recorded or saved -and notjust
work by professional artists or big studios. Copyright
protects all ofus-our photos on Instagram and
everything we write or create.



Copyright protection doesn't last forever.
Eventuallyit expires, and the creative work falls
into the "public domain." Works in the public
domain are free to re-use and share however
you want.

5

Ifyou copy or share other people's creative
works without permission, that's called copyright
infringement. Examples:

Downloading music, movies, ebooks, or games
from illegal sources that operate without arrists'
permission.

·Uploading your collection of music, movies,
ebooks, or games for your friends to copy.

Copyright infringement is illegal and carries
serious penalties.

10

Some creators are happyto share their
creative work. They usea licensing system
forsharing called Creative Commons. You
can find millions of CC work that are free to
share or re-use.

Copyright tandCreativity.org



