314

YARROW

1999 such iterations to form parameter distributions. If these distributions are
symmetric, we can pretty much just read values straight out of them to form
confidence intervals (e.g., the 50th and 1950th values out of 1999 will give us a
roughly 95% confidence interval). Ifthey are not, we must do something more
complicated, with the best choice being the bias-corrected and accelerated
(BCa) approach. Because of the large number of fits that are required,
bootstrapping is fairly slow. If the experiment contains many trials, the BCa
method makes it even slower (because it incorporates additional "jackknife"
resampling, implying one further fitting iteration for almostevery trial).18

The code accompanying this chapter offers options to generate confidence
intervals on fitted parameters. Confidence intervals sometimes imply
statistical inference, as for example when they fail to overlap some value and
thus imply that our statistic differs significantly from that value. However, in
SJ experiments we are more likely to want to ask a question such as whether
a particular parameter differs between two conditions for a single observer.
To answer this kind of question, you will need to modify or develop the code.
If we take the example of whether parameters vary across conditions, my
recommendation would be to adopt a permutation test approach.

To do SO, take the trials from both conditions and think of each trial as a
card in a deck of cards. Making sure you keep each trial intact (i.e., without
breaking the link between SOAS and responses) shuffle the trials and then deal
them at random into two new piles, each representing a pseudo-condition.
If your original conditions contained different numbers of trials, make sure
the two pseudo-conditions match the size of the original conditions. For each
pseudo-condition, perform a model fit. Now calculate the difference between
model parameters in the two pseudo-conditions. This is the value you want to
retain. Now repeat this whole process many times. What you are forming is a
null distribution of the expected difference between model parameters that
would occurjustby chance. You can then compare the difference you actually
obtained against this null distribution to generate ap value for your difference
ofinterest.

# 7 Variants ofSJ Observer Models

In this chapter, Ihave presented two variants of latency-based observer mod-
elapplied to thesj task. Both assume that a single SOA will generate an inter-
nal response (△t) that is a Gaussian random variable. Both assume a simple

18 E.g., <SiuulaeiiiiissCiieriAdds 225 386>. Note that Matlab has inbuilt func-
tions,which could havedone mostof thisifyou have the statistics toolbox extensions.

