CIRCULATING THINGS, CIRCULATING STEREOTYPES

73

indicates the use of balsam, which is *indigenous
in various parts of Arabia," as an ingredient in the
"Myrabolan comfit."2 Such references emphasize
Arabia's exoticism and refined taste, as well as the
sweetness and fragrance of its products, which
were much valued during a time when the con-
sumption of sugar and spices was rising rapidly
among European populations.

Coffee is another staple thing customarily asso-
ciatedwith thearea.Inhis Dictionary,Johnsonindi-
cates the Arabic origin of coffee and rightly SO, as
one the most popular types of coffeeis called "Ara-
bica" becauseitwas firstdmmetticated for commer-
cial use in the southern part of Arabia the Happy
(present-day Yemen). Given the Muslim prohibi-
tion of alcohol, coffee became particularly attrac-
tive to the Muslim world as "the wine of Islam,"26
andspread through the ports ofthe Persian Gulfin
Western Europe, where itbecame immensely pop-
ular. Collections of travels published during the
time mention that coffee was "the product of Ara-
bia only."27 Imported largely from Yemen, which
was credited with producing the best coffee in the
world, coffee was considered to have stimulating
and therapeutic properties.28 The former qualityis
famously describedby Pope in The Rape
"Coffee (which makes the politician wise),/Andsee
thro' all things with his half-shut Eyes) Sentup in
vapours to the Baron's brain New Stratagems, the
radiant Lock to gai n."29 According to Beawes, the
product was brought to Mecca through the portof
Jeddah, whose "[t]rade consists mainly of coffee
brought here by the Arabians and bought by the

25 Wiliam Beckford, An Arabian Tale, from an Unpub-
lishedManuscript: With Notes Critical and Explanatory
(London: Printed for..Johnson, 1786), 165.

26 Forthe association between coffee and wine,see Ralph
S. Hattox, Coffee and Coffeehouses: The Origins ofa So-
cial Beverage in the Medieval Middle East (Seattle: Uni-
versity of Washington Press, 1985), 18-19.

27 A Collectionof Voyages and Travels, 1:440.

- 28 Coffee was customarily used asa mild painkillerduring
the eighteenth century Poet Alexander Pope, for in-
stance, used itas palliative forhis migraines.
- 29 Pope, The Rape ofthe Lock, 69.




FIGURE 4.2 William Hogarth, Tastein High Life [graphic].
PRINT MADE BY ISAAC MILLS AFTER WILLIAM
HOGARTH'S PAINTING, WITHOUTTHE ARTIST's
PERMISSION, LONDON,1798

Turks [and] by the Merchants of Mogul, Persia,
and several places on the coast ofEhiopia."s From
here, coffee spread rapidly in England, France,and
Italy, giving rise to the coffeehouse culture thatisa
hallmarkofthe eighteenth century. Coffee wasalso
regularly paired in the visual culture of the time
with expensive china (fig. 4.2), was employed asa
mark of the culture of sociability (fig. 4.3), or was
used foritsoracularproperties (fig. 4.4).

Arabian medicines were also much sought-after
in the Western world. As indicated by Beawes,
"from Arabia, Medicinal drugs, Dragon's Blood,
Manna, Myrrh, [and] Incense,"32 were brought to
the British metropolis. Pharmacopoia Reformata
(1744) mentions gum Arabic, aloe, cassia, acacia,
cardamom, saffron, myrrh, and spikenard, which
were all used for their therapeutic properties.%?To

# 30 Beawes, LexMercatoria Rediviva, 791.

31 Again, the custom of reading one's fortune in coffee
grounds is of Turkish provenance, not Arabic. Such
mistaken attributions were pervasive during the eigh-
teenth century

32 Beawes, Lex Mercatoria Rediviva, 792.

33 M.M,,Pharmacopoia Reformata:Or,An Essayfora Ref-
ormation ofthe London Pharmacopoia, bya Set ofRe-
marks on the Draught for a New One, and a Brief Ac-
count ofthe t Proceedings ofthe CommitteeApppinteddyy
the College ofPhysicians, to Thoroughly Reform Their

