# Restrictions on Land Ownership by Foreigners in
Selected Jurisdictions

Staffofthe Global Legal Research Directorate

# I. Introduction

This report, prepared by the research staff of the Law Library of Congress, surveys 39
jurisdictions regarding whether, and if SO how, they restrict ownership of land by foreigners.1
The jurisdictions surveyed were among those with the highest gross domestic product according
to 2021 World Bank data, selected to ensure broadly representative coverage.2

We identified 10 countries that do not restrict land ownership by foreigners: Belgium, France,
Germany, Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, and the
United Kingdom.

We found that the following countries do not permit foreign ownership of land, although
exceptions may apply in some cases or other rights to land may be acquired: China, Indonesia,
Nigeria, Philippines, and Thailand.

Among the other jurisdictions surveyed, some have restrictions that apply to different types of
land, including agricultural, residential, and commercial land. Other types ofrestriction are based
on the location of the land, such as near the border or military establishments. Some jurisdictions
restrict particular categories of foreigners from land ownershipp Some require special permission
or approval for foreigners before they can acquire land.

Ownership of agricultural land by foreigners is restricted by some provinces of Canada, and by
Egypt, India (restricted for diplomatic personnel, nonresidents of Indian origin and nonresident
citizens without registration), Iran, Poland (permit required), and Russia. Argentina, Brazil,and
Turkey restrict ownership of rural or local land to a percentage of the total land of the local
jurisdiction.

Article XVII of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) obligates members to provide
national treatment to other members, i.e., "treatment no less favourable than that itaccords to its
If land ownership restrictions result in less favorable treatment of foreigners, GATS

The surveyed jurisdictions are Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Egypt,
Finland, Germany, Greece, India Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, South
Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, and the United
Kingdom.
2World Bank Databank, Gross Domestic Product 2021 (Jan. 15, 2023), https:/ /prma.cc/GP7Y-Z8K8.
3General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS), Apr. 15, 1994, Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World
Trade Organization, Annex 1B, art. XVII, 1869 U.N.T.S. 183,33 I.L.M. 1167 (1994), https://perma.c/ZZ89Y-
SEVS.

TheLaw Library of Congress

1

