2.TheLost Homeland

This description told me that Steinkirche was somewhere in the vicinity
of Strehlen. Then, according to Elfriede's stories about walking her
animals, ducks, geese and a goat to the railway station to meet visitors,
station once existed near the village. Iwondered whether had survived
the bombing. I have seen films of the utter devastation along the Oder
River in early May 1945, just before the War in Europe ended. Did the
railway still pass Steinkirche? My mother's father had been a railway line
pointsman, a signal attendant. From a station close to home he would
have undertaken the long journeys his work demanded.

Iwent back to the old German maps in the National Library and located
Steinkirche on one of several contiguous contour maps perhaps designed
for military purposes. They covered Lower Silesia in 1938 in-remarkable
detail, although such detail also helped obscure the printed names
of villages, which were lost in the depictions of miniature hills, rivers,
quarries, castles, lakes and even houses.

Eventually I did locate the village through this superb map. Steinkirche
was off the main road near the second railway station south of Strehlen,
probably on a hill, something my mother had never mentioned. If one
passed it, one could also locate it as station number two of the seven
between Strehlen and Milnsterberg, on the railway running south of
Breslau towards the Carpathian Mountains. Then I noted the Polish
names for the two townships south ofWroclaw (Breslau) In the German-
to-Polish Gazeteer they are given as Strzelin and Ziebice.

My intention was to take a train or a car to the new Polish ex-Steinkirche,
visit it discreetly, and search the old cemetery for family connections.
Iwanted to photograph my two-year-old granddaughter beside my own
grandfather Friedrich's grave. Iwanted to look for other evidenceoffamily
history, and just savour the atmosphere of the place. also wanted to see
what had happened to Neumarkt Platz.

It was difficult to achieve anything in a hurry. In London, my daughter,
granddaughter and I visited the office of the Polish Consulate. Tourist
brochures were generously given to us, but none of the authoritative road
maps ofPoland showed the villages between Strzelin and Ziebice. Did our
village still exist? And by what name?

Afterflyingto Berlin, we set outinahirecarfor Wroclaw on 13 September
2003. Beside the Hitler-era Autobahn, there are still extensive forests,
between Alat farmlands. It was raining when we entered Poland.

