| |
|---|


| |
|---|


organizations to navigate successfully the global digital economy. Finally each of the identified competences, within the Framework will correspond to the different e-learning modules (PR2) and e-game levels (PR3)

# Reference frameworks:

⮚ GreenComp – “The European Sustainability Competence Framework”(1), responds to the growing need for people to improve and develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes to live, work and act in a sustainable manner.

GreenComp is a reference framework for sustainability competences. It provides a common ground to learners and guidance to educators, providing a consensual definition of what sustainability as a competence entails. It is designed to support education and training programmes for lifelong learning. It is written for all learners, irrespective of their age and their education level and in any learning setting – formal, non-formal and informal. Sustainability competences can help learners become systemic and critical thinkers, as well as develop agency, and form a knowledge basis for everyone who cares about our planet’s present and future state. The aim of GreenComp is to foster a sustainability mindset by helping users develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes to think, plan and act with empathy, responsibility, and care for our planet.

Green- Comp is the result of a robust research methodology that has involved a large and diverse group of experts and stakeholders, to build a consensus on an agreed proposal. It provides a general reference model that everyone involved in lifelong learning can use to design learning opportunities aimed at developing sustainability competences and to assess progress in supporting education and training for sustainability.

GreenComp consists of 12 competences organised into the four main areas below:

Area Competence

- 1. Embodying sustainability values 1.1 Valuing sustainability

- 1.2 Supporting fairness

- 1.3 Promoting nature


- 2. Embracing complexity in sustainability

- 2.1 Systems thinking

- 2.2 Critical thinking

- 2.3 Problem framing


- 3. Envisioning sustainable futures 3.1 Futures literacy 3.2 Adaptability


This project has been funded with the support of the European Commission. This publication reflects the views only of the author and the Commission cannot be held responsible for any use which may be made of the information contained therein.

Project No: : 2021-2-FR02-KA220-YOU-000048126

