# cropping.

|Contour Farming|Contour Farming<br><br>Contour Strip Cropping<br><br>Contour Strip Cropping<br><br>Contour Strip Cropping|
|---|---|
|Slope Gradient (%)<br><br>Max Slope Length (ft)|P Value Strip Width (ft) P Value, RGMM P Value, RRGM|
|1 - 2 400|0.6 130 0.30 0.45|
|3 - 5 300|0.5 100 0.25 0.38|
|6 - 8 200|0.5 100 0.25 0.38|
|9 - 12 120|0.6 80 0.30 0.45|
|13 - 16 100|0.7 80 0.35 0.52|
|17 - 20 100|0.8 60 0.40 0.60|


Table adapted from Jones et al. (1988) with permission. †Strip cropping uses a four-year rotation of row crop followed by one year of a small grain and two years of meadow (forages) for RGMM, or uses two years of row crops followed by one year of small grain and one year of meadow for RRGM. Meadow includes alfalfa, clover, grass, etc.

How does the erosion rate under contour tillage compare to the tolerable erosion rate?

How does the erosion rate under contour tillage compare to the erosion rate under conservation tillage alone?

Next we will test the impact of installing terraces on the landscape. Using Table 16.5, determine the Pt factor. When terraces are installed, contour tillage is usually used as well. Also, note that installing a terrace results in a shorter length of the slope (because the terrace stops water from continuing to run down slope), so this calculation is performed for each terrace individually. Also note that the net P factor is determined by multiplying the Pc and Pt values together, or writing the RUSLE as follows:

# Table 16.5. Conservation practice (P) values for terraces with underground outlets or waterways.

## Terrace Interval Underground Outlets Waterways with percent grade of:

|(ft)|0.1-0.3|0.4-0.7 0.8|
|---|---|---|
|Pt Values|Pt Values|Pt Values Pt Values|
|<110 0.5|0.6|0.7 1.0|
|110-140 0.6|0.7|0.8 1.0|
|140-180 0.7|0.8|0.9 1.0|
|180-225 0.8|0.8|0.9 1.0|
|225-300 0.9|0.9|1.0 1.0|
|300+ 1.0|1.0|1.0 1.0|


146 | Soil Erosion and Conservation

