Restrictions on Land Ownership by Foreigners in Selected Jurisdictions

members should specify this in their schedule of specific commitments.4 Reservation of the ability to lease or own land to nationals is one such treatment; therefore, it should be listed in the schedule as a limitation on national treatment.5 This applies to services that the GATS covers.6

Some jurisdictions do not list foreign land ownership on their schedules, but restrict it for national security or similar interests.7 Such jurisdictions include Australia and Finland (national interest), Chile and Greece (border area), Russia (national security), and Spain (zones of interest to national defense and the military). Several other jurisdictions that also restrict ownership for national security purposes have entered restrictions on their GATS schedules. Such jurisdictions include Argentina and Mexico (border area), Iran (sensitive areas), South Korea (military bases and installation protection zones), Taiwan (lands within fortified and military areas and adjacent to the national frontiers), and Turkey (designated military zones).

There are other various restrictions on foreigners’ land ownership. Figure 1 below shows in simplified format the surveyed jurisdictions that impose particular categories of restrictions. On page 4, a color-coded map sets forth which jurisdictions permit foreign acquisition, prohibit it, or impose restrictions. A Comparative Summary Table beginning on page 5 presents the essential findings of our study for each jurisdiction. Lastly, the textual surveys for each jurisdiction provide further detail.

- 4 Id. art. XX.
- 5 Julia Nielson & Daria Taglioni, A Quick Guide to the GATS and Mode 4, OECD, World Bank, IOM Seminar on Trade and Migration (Nov. 12-14, 2003), at 11, https://perma.cc/B8XW-LNZ4.
- 6 World Trade Organization, The General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS): Objectives, Coverage and Disciplines, Question 3, https://perma.cc/4J7Y-WAG7. It states, “[t]he GATS applies in principle to all service sectors, with two exceptions.”
- 7 See GATS art. XIV General Exceptions.


The Law Library of Congress 2

