this content “very often”, 71% were from Indonesia and 28.6% were from Thailand. When asked about how often participants had heard of groups expressing the importance of men accompanying women when travelling to conflict zones, more respondents had heard this message with a higher frequency (“always” or “very often”, 37.1%) than those who had rarely or never heard it (34%). Forty-six per cent of respondents from Indonesia heard this message with a higher frequency, followed by the Philippines (38%) and Thailand (15%). When grouping the answer options of “always”, “very often” and “sometimes”, 66% of respondents said they had heard groups stress the importance of women being accompanied by men when travelling to conflict areas.

# Figure 5: Importance of a male guardian accompanying women when travelling to conflict zones

Yes No

In the second part of the survey, using a five-point Likert scale from “strongly agree” to “strongly disagree”, participants were presented with a series of statements regarding how worried they were about intolerant content being espoused in the offline space by violent ex-

tremist groups. Most respondents (77%) agreed (combining both “strongly agree” and “agree”) that they were worried about intolerance in their communities, particularly respondents from Indonesia and the Philippines. Almost all respondents in the sample (93%) agreed that they were worried about violent extremism in their countries. This appeared to be a general concern among both men and women as 85% of men and 95% of women agreed that they were concerned.

Significantly, 89% of respondents agreed that religious extremism would impede women’s rights. Half of the participants in Indonesia agreed they were concerned that religious extremism would hamper women’s rights, 27% in Philippines and 16% in Thailand. Both men (84.6%) and women (89.2%) expressed their concerns on this issue. Furthermore, 91% of respondents agreed that religious extremism prioritizes men’s rights over women’s rights – 93.1% of women strongly agreed with the statement compared to 6.90% of men.

For example, one interviewee from Indonesia observed that the teachings of extremism have entered schools, such as high schools, and have also begun to penetrate student organizations. She observed that the teachings “spread from the Middle East, bringing misogynistic teachings towards women as part of their subjugation strategy”. She acknowledged that it was part of the organizational strategy where women appeared to look empowered:

“However, this is just manipulation; behind it is the practice of misogyny, women's consciousness, their bodies and minds are controlled, even though

Gender Analysis of Violent Extremism and the Impact of COVID-19 on Peace and Security in ASEAN31

