be used as a good opportunity to learn from each other and increase the capacity of human rights institutions in various countries.94

What works in other countries, can be learned and developed according to the situation in Indonesia. 95 Partnerships can be carried out formally through a memorandum of understanding or with a partnerships agreement for potential strategic partners.96

# 3.2.6. SDGs Dissemination in Social Media

Information dissemination in the digital era is closely related to the use of social media. Therefore, the dissemination of the SDGs through social media platforms owned by the Komnas HAM needs to be optimized as a way to increase public participation to be active as “agents” of the Komnas HAM in Indonesia. To be able to achieve this, the community needs to first receive education about the SDGs to clearly understand the focus of each goal and its derivatives. Once there is a fairly good understanding at the level of the general public, especially those who interact with the Komnas HAM’s social media, an easier way to report SDGs related to human rights violations can be formulated.

The Komnas HAM, for example, has used social media Instagram, Twitter, and YouTube. There has been an increase in the frequency of Instagram social media uploads from 2019-2020 from 111 uploads in 2019 to 198 uploads in 2020. The variety of content uploaded by the Komnas HAM on Instagram is also increasingly diverse with the following details:

|81<br><br>21<br><br>9<br><br>0 0<br><br>76<br><br>56<br><br>47<br><br>16<br><br>3 0<br><br>10<br><br>20<br><br>30<br><br>40<br><br>50<br><br>60<br><br>70<br><br>80<br><br>90<br><br>Events Information Celebration<br><br>Greetings<br><br>Infographics Videographic<br><br>2019 2020<br><br>|
|---|


|Diagram 4 Distribution of @komnas.ham Instagram Content (2019-2020)|
|---|


If observed from the Komnas HAM’s Instagram account within the 2019-2020 period, the SDGs have only been mentioned explicitly twice in the following contents:

- 94 See also Komnas HAM, “The NHRI Practice and Experience in Indonesia, Kyrgyzstan, and Palestine in Supporting Sustainable Development Goals Achievements” (n. 93).
- 95 Ibid.
- 96 Ibid.


18

