Chapter 4

# Nonlinear equations

## 4.1 Introduction

The pressure drop in a ﬂuid in motion is examined. For a ﬂow in a pipe with a circular cross section of diameter D (meter), the Reynolds number, Re, is given by

Dv ν

Re =

,

- in which v (m/s) is the average ﬂow velocity and ν (m2/s) is the viscosity of the ﬂuid. The ﬂow is called laminar if Re < 2100 (low ﬂow velocity) and turbulent if Re > 3000. For 2100 ≤ Re ≤ 3000, the ﬂow is neither laminar nor turbulent. For turbulent ﬂows, the pressure drop between inﬂow and outﬂow is given by

Pout − Pin =

ρwLv2 2gD

,

- in which w is a friction coefﬁcient, ρ (kg/m3) is the ﬂuid density, L (m) is the length and g (m/s2) is the acceleration of gravity. If the ﬂuid contains particles (sand, paper ﬁbers), then the friction coefﬁcient w satisﬁes the equation


ln(Re√w) + 14 − 5.6k k

1 √w

=

,

in which k is a parameter known from experiments. In this chapter, numerical methods will be discussed that can be used to determine w if the values of Re and k are known.

## 4.2 Deﬁnitions

In this chapter, various iterative methods will be considered to solve nonlinear equations of the form f(p) = 0. The point p is called a zero of the function f, or a root of the equation f(x) = 0. First, some useful deﬁnitions and concepts are introduced.

### Convergence

Each numerical method generates a sequence {pn} = p0, p1, p2, . . . which should converge to p: limn→∞ pn = p. Assume that the sequence indeed converges, with pn = p for all n. If there exist positive constants λ and α satisfying

|p − pn+1| |p − pn α

= λ, (4.1)

lim

n→∞

