<table>
 <tr>
  <td colspan="2">
   Fish species on IUCN Red List
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   Potosi Pupfish
  </td>
  <td>
   Cyprinodon alvarezi
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   La Palma Pupfish
  </td>
  <td>
   Cyprinodon longidorsalis
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   Butterfly Splitfin
  </td>
  <td>
   Ameca splendens
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   Golden Skiffia
  </td>
  <td>
   Skiffia francesae
  </td>
 </tr>
</table>


Table 6.1: Four fish species on IUCN Red List "Extinct in the Wild" held in public aquariums.

Public aquariums, because of their in-
house expertise, can act quickly to collect
and breed rare fish. Actions to prevent the
extinction of the Barrens Topminnow
include monitoring populations and
propagating and stocking juveniles into
existing or newly created spring habitats.
The Tennessee Aquarium assisted with
propagations and developed a program
called "Keeper Kids," where students on
spring break help feed the Barrens
Topminnows in a behind-the-scenes
experience.

Figure 6.3: Photo of the critically endangered Butterfly Splitfin (Ameca
spendens).

The breeding colonies of the Butterfly Splitfin (Figure 6.3) at the London Zoo and elsewhere serve as ark
populations essential to the survival of this species. Butterfly Splitfins are endemic to the Rio Ameca in
western Mexico and almost extinct in the wild. Actions such as nonnative fish removal, stream restoration, and
sanctuary designation may take decades before eventual introduction and survival in the wild. The Tennessee
Aquarium is part of a large partnership to guide hatchery augmentation and recovery of the rarest darter in
North America (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 2019). The Conasauga Logperch (Percina jenkinsi), a federally
endangered darter (Percidae), is found only in a 30-mile (48 km) stretch of the Conasauga River in Georgia and
Tennessee (Moyer et al. 2015).

THE LAKE STURGEON.
Acipenser rubicundus, Le S: (p.
Drawing by H. L from No. National Museum by J. W.

Figure 6.4: Lake Sturgeon (Acipenser fulvescens).

The Banggai Cardinalfish (Pterapogon
kauderni), a small, endangered tropical
cardinalfish in the family Apogonidae, is
now bred and displayed in numerous public
aquariums after overharvest in the wild
drove wild populations to near extinction.
Consequently, most Banggai Cardinalfish
sold to hobbyists in the United States and
European Union today are captive bred.

132 | Public Aquariums and Their Role in Education, Science, and Conservation