xviii

Prologue

So let's get rid of the expression derivative d/dt and replace it
with an appropriate functional derivative. If f is a function then
we will write Df as the new function that is the derivative of f:5

(Df)(t)=\left.\frac{d}{dx}f(x)\right|_{x=t}.

To do this for the Lagrange equation we need to construct a
function to take the derivative of.

Given a configuration-space path w, there is a standard way
to make the state-space path. We can abstract this method as a
mathematical function Γ:

\Gamma[w](t)=\left(t,w(t),\frac{d}{dl}w(t)\right).

Using Γ we can write:

\frac{d}{dt}\left(\left(\partial_2L\right)(\Gamma[w](t))\right)-\left(\partial_1L\right)(\Gamma[w(t))=0.

If we now define composition of functions (f ○ g)(x) = f(g(x)),
we can express the Lagrange equations entirely in terms of func-
tions:

D\left(\left(\partial_2L\right)\circ(\Gamma[w])\right)-\left(\partial_1L\right)\circ(\Gamma[w])=0.

The functions ∂1L and ∂2L are partial derivatives of the func-
tion L. Composition with Γ[w] evaluates these partials with coor-
dinates and velocites appropriate for the path w, making functions
of time. Applying D takes the time derivative. The Lagrange
equation states that the difference of the resulting functions of
time must be zero. This statement of the Lagrange equation is
complete, unambiguous, and functional. It is not encumbered
with the particular choices made in expressing the Lagrangian.
For example, it doesn't matter if the time is named t or τ, and it
has an explicit place for the path to be tested.

This expression is equivalent to a computer program:6

5An explanation of functional derivatives is in Appendix B, page 202.
6The programs in this book are written in Scheme, a dialect of Lisp. The
details of the language are not germane to the points being made. What is
important is that it is mechanically interpretable, and thus unambiguous. In
this book we require that the mathematical expressions be explicit enough