96

MACDONALD

FIGURE 5.1 Mr. Bologna Jun-r as Kalim Azack in Aladdin, or
The Wonderful Lamp.

theatrical prints, which are informed by intercul-
turation and illustrate the Orientalized look of the
tale's theatrical life: one of John ("Jack") Peter Bo-
logna as Kalim Azack, the vizier's son betrothed to
Badroulboudour, and one of the extraordinary
pantomime clown Joseph Grimaldi as Kazrac, the
magician's Chinese slave, who, disillusioned by the
magician's cruel plans concerning the lamp, be-
friends Aladdin (figs. 5.1 and 5.2). The creation of
this non-speaking role (Kazrac's tongue had been
removed by the "Tartarian Hord" from whom the
magician rescued him) added much to the play,
besides giving both the magician and Aladdin an
ally and a confidant. Interestingly, these two prints
likely represent a notable scene in the play, cer-
tainly a favorite with children playing with a toy
theater. The prints show Kalim Azack and Kazrac
fighting while Aladdin follows the princess to the
royal baths. The wealthy Kalim Azack is depicted
wearing an elaborate ensemble: long embroidered
tunic with fringe, short jacket with embroidery
and tassels, full trousers tucked into boots, a sash,

FIGURE 5.2 Mr. Grimaldi as Kazrac (the Chinese slave) in
Aladdin, or The Wonderful Lamp.

necklace, earrings, and brooches. With his fanciful
hat and long moustache, he depicts a theatrical
version of "a Tartar," or "a Man from Crimea." An
illustration with the same title was included in an
1804 edition of The Costume of Turkey that aptly as-
sociates Kalim Azack with the "Tartarian Hord"
responsible for Kazrac's disfigurement.41 Kazrac's
"Chinese" costume resembles contemporary Qing
Dynasty (1636-1912) fashion with its changshan tu-
nic, long, loose trousers, and a cap with upturned
brim, topped with a knob. Despite his role as a
poor peasant, Kazrac's theatrical costume is em-
bellished with embroidery and a gold trim, and the
character wears white stockings. Additionally,
Grimaldi sports a braided pigtail and long mous-
tache and brandishes two curved swords. Taken
together, these two cultural images exemplify the
Orientalized look that contributed to the fantasy

41 "A Tartar. A Man from Crimea," in Octavien Dalvimart,
The Costume of Turkey, 1802 (London: Printed for Will-
iam Miller, 1804), n.p.