consumption onsite or offsite. Food Service Establishments (FSE) refers to the business
engaged in the Food Service Industry. For purposes of the survey, the FSE is segmented
into:

- · full-service restaurants, with full menu and waiting service;
· limited-service restaurants or quick service restaurants (QSR), with full menu but
pay-as-you-order such as fast food or turo-turo type8;
· cafes/bars/pop-ups (selected menu with few chairs and tables);
· kiosks and stalls (purely retail, to be consumed elsewhere); and
· catering or 100% home delivery.

Full-service restaurants, limited-service restaurants and cafes/bars/pop-ups may also
offer "to go" or "take away" services.

Red
Jollibee
Max's
Limited Cafes, bars Kiosks and
Full service catering
Service and Pop ups stalls

Figure 1. FSI Segmentation

b. Plastic. The Baseline Study looked into the extent of Plastic use of FSEs in Dasmarinas
City. Plastics are categorized by food grade.9 The six food grades are 1) Polyethylene
Terephthalate: clear, tough plastic such as soft drinks, juice and water, (2) High Density
Polyethylene: white or colored plastic such as milk containers, (3) Polyvinyl Chloride:
hard rigid clear plastic such as cordial bottles; (4) Low Density Polyethylene: soft,
flexible such as squeezable bottles; 5) Polypropylene: hard but flexible plastics such as
microwave ware; takeaway containers, some yogurt or jam containers and hinged lunch
boxes, and (6) Polystyrene: rigid, brittle plastics such as small tubes and margarine or
butter container. See Figure 1. Plastic litter found in the rivers are of categories 1-6. There
are also other plastics that do not fall under food grade 1-6.

8 Filipino word for restaurants where a menu of cooked or ready-to-eat food are on display and clients point to their choice of food and
pay as they take their food to their tables or ask for take-out packaging.
9 Food grade plastics refer to plastic containers, tools or other supplies made of plastics that are cleared to be used for food
preparation, handling, and service.

18 Study on Plastics Use and Waste Management in the Food Service Industry