one of the two players is allowed to communicate with the other player (i.e., there is "one-way
communication") the players coordinate their choices 96% of the time! However, with
simultaneous two-way communication between the two players, they coordinate only 42% of
the time! Explain what happened.

- 10. We demonstrated how to solve for the Penalty Kick game's mixed-strategy equilibrium.
Suppose you were new to the game of soccer (or football) and assigned to play the goalie
position. After watching the following YouTube video, what strategy might make the most
sense for you to adopt on penalty kicks: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3yWZZR9ZodI.

- 11. The map below identifies (with red markers) the locations of gas stations in Salt Lake City,
Utah (Utah's capital city). Do these gas station locations depict a pure strategy equilibrium for
the Hotelling Game? Explain.

Ave
NTS
Chevron
900
600 N W
THE AVENUES
Utah State 11th
Ave
AIRPARK Capitol Building 1ST
N
300 N Virginia
400 3rd Ave
Maverik
M
2nd Ave 와
SUNBURST
Clark Planetarium S Temple Sinclair
S
1300
15
StateSt
Sinclair 1100
E
rove Blvd S E
Main
900
Maverik CENTRAL CITY 500 S
E
W 600 S 500 1300
St
89
300 Chevron Salt Lake City
E
E
W
800 S
S 15 W 900 S 900 S
B
900
W Tracy Aviary &
Botanical Gardens
1100
1300 S 1300 S
E
Maverik Shell
1700 S
1300
S
S
90 W Chevron C
300
89
E
Smith's Fuel Center
E
15
S
2100S

Source: Google Maps

12. In this chapter, we learned that when an individual acquires private information about
something, this added information does not necessarily make the individual better off. In
particular, when an individual (say, Player 1) acquires private information about something of
common interest to both himself and another individual (say, Player 2), and Player 2 knows
Player 1 has acquired this private information, Player 1 could actually be made worse off as a
result of Player 2 changing her strategy in response to the fact that she knows Player 1 now
has additional information. Whew! Can you think of a real-life example where the acquisition

BEHAVIORAL ECONOMICS PRACTICUM 175