RC ASHATERIALS
ART/SCI Bodies
PeRFORMINg
MeTHODS enGAGe suBtectiviTy
compicates INTERVeNe Mess incorpoates
trad.confines activalio keeps open tRad.undeR
participant ended queries
valued
art/sel (antological?) episienus.
&- engages
mathods
audience (i.e. thebody)
hub. camplexity
intergration ( drail ) to eat is to plukatility making Run
artscientist thRu for situated
think
knew prod
caubinatoRy subjectivities
&-
SAVE FOR? to remain
distinct.
eNDING
what is the what u potential
Role of exploration of RC as an (scal?) How does
intervention. the oreator
perform

An example of a conceptual map created by one of our interviewees

It seemed at times that the remarkable freedom of writing freeform allowed these
languages to form, but it was difficult, if not impossible, to replicate that freedom on
available digital tools. Printing out articles or chapters of interest and annotating them
with pen or pencil is still seen as the way to go by many. Having physical copies on hand
also means easier management as this benefits from the very natural use of space for
arranging things, e.g.: "The pile on the right contains my primary sources; on the left are
things I've flagged as potentially interesting and to revisit." Often mentioned was the
use of digital editions for quick consultation and search, but print versions for in-depth
reading and annotation. Most collect important works in print.

While some note taking did take place alongside annotation, each of our researchers
would reach a point where they needed to take the texts they had read and turn the
notes, quotes, and other takeaways into something they could then begin to incorporate
into their writing. Again, the approaches to this varied widely, and depended on the
tools used initially. Some would take handwritten annotations and highlighting and type
them into a word processor. Others would export annotations from tools in whatever

32 | Considering Scholarly Readers