Chapter 3. Numerical differentiation

35

Note that the exact error equals

M-Q(h)=e-2.7525\ldots=-0.0342\ldots\ldots

In this example the error estimate is very reliable.

To receive a better approximation the error estimate can be added to the approximation:

Q(h)+c_ph^p=2.7525\ldots-0.0348\ldots=2.7177\ldots.

In the above example, the value of p was computed using Richardson's extrapolation. However,
using Theorem 3.2.1, it is clear that p = 1, and this value could have been used immediately in
equation (3.13b) in order to determine cphp. In practice, more complex situations are found, and
the following complications may occur:

- - It is not known whether higher-order derivatives exist and/or are bounded.

- - The final result is a combination of various approximation methods. The influence of these
approximations on p is not always clear.

- - During implementation of the algorithm in a computer program, errors may be made.

To reveal any of these complications it is good practice to verify whether the calculated p is close
to the p that follows from theory.

# 3.7.3 Formulae of higher accuracy from Richardson's extrapolation *

In several applications the value of p in (3.10) is known. In that case Richardson's extrapolation
can be used to determine formulae of higher accuracy.

This is done by making use of the fact that the error estimates for Q(h) and Q(2h) equal

M-Q(h)=c_ph^p+\mathcal{O}\left(h^{p+1}\right)\text{,}

(3.15a)

M-Q(2h)=c_p(2h)^p+\mathcal{O}\left(h^{p+1}\right)\text{.}

(3.15b)

Multiplying equation (3.15a) by 2p and subtracting equation (3.15b) from this yields

2^p(M-Q(h))-(M-Q(2h))=2^p\left(c_ph^p\right)-c_p(2h)^p+\mathcal{O}\left(h^{p+1}\right)\text{,}

such that

\left(2^p-1\right)M-2^pQ(h)+Q(2h)=\mathcal{O}\left(h^{p+1}\right)\text{.}

This means that

M=\frac{2^pQ(h)-Q(2h)}{2^p-1}+\mathcal{O}\left(h^{p+1}\right)\text{.}

(3.16)

The value (2pQ(h) - Q(2h))/(2p - 1) is a new approximation formula for M with an accuracy
that is one order higher than the order of Q(h).

# Example 3.7.2 (Forward difference of higher accuracy)

As an example, the forward-difference method is considered. The error in the forward-difference
formula may be written as

f^{\prime}(x)-Q_f(h)=c_1h+\mathcal{O}\left(h^2\right)\text{,}

(3.17)

and the difference for 2h equals

f^{\prime}(x)-Q_f(2h)=c_12h+\mathcal{O}\left(h^2\right)\text{.}

(3.18)