# Chapter 4

# Nonlinear equations

# 4.1 Introduction

The pressure drop in a fluid in motion is examined. For a flow in a pipe with a circular cross
section of diameter D (meter), the Reynolds number, Re, is given by

\operatorname{Re}=\frac{Dv}{v}\text{,}

in which v (m/s) is the average flow velocity and v (m2/s) is the viscosity of the fluid. The flow is
called laminar if Re < 2100 (low flow velocity) and turbulent if Re > 3000. For 2100 ≤ Re ≤ 3000,
the flow is neither laminar nor turbulent.

For turbulent flows, the pressure drop between inflow and outflow is given by

P_{\text{out}}-P_{\text{in}}=\frac{\rhowLv^2}{2gD}\text{,}

in which w is a friction coefficient, ρ (kg/m3) is the fluid density, L (m) is the length and g (m/s2)
is the acceleration of gravity. If the fluid contains particles (sand, paper fibers), then the friction
coefficient w satisfies the equation

\frac{1}{\sqrt{w}}=\frac{\ln(\operatorname{Re}\sqrt{w})+14-\frac{5.6}{k}}{k}\text{,}

in which k is a parameter known from experiments.

In this chapter, numerical methods will be discussed that can be used to determine w if the values
of Re and k are known.

# 4.2 Definitions

In this chapter, various iterative methods will be considered to solve nonlinear equations of the
form f(p) = 0. The point p is called a zero of the function f, or a root of the equation f(x) = 0.
First, some useful definitions and concepts are introduced.

# Convergence

Each numerical method generates a sequence {pn} = p0, p1, p2,... which should converge to p:
limn→∞ pn = p. Assume that the sequence indeed converges, with pn ≠ p for all n. If there exist
positive constants λ and α satisfying

\lim_{n\rightarrow\infty}\frac{\left|p-p_{n+1}\right|}{\left|p-p_n\right|^\alpha}=\lambda\text{,}

(4.1)