# 4 Basis Fields

A vector field may be written as a linear combination of basis
vector fields. If n is the dimension, then any set of n linearly
independent vector fields may be used as a basis. The coordinate
basis X is an example of a basis.1 We will see later that not every
basis is a coordinate basis: in order to be a coordinate basis,
there must be a coordinate system such that each basis element is
the directional derivative operator in a corresponding coordinate
direction.

Let e be a tuple of basis vector fields, such as the coordinate
basis X. The general vector field v applied to an arbitrary manifold
function f can be expressed as a linear combination

\mathrm{v}(\mathrm{f})(\mathrm{m})=\mathrm{e}(\mathrm{f})(\mathrm{m})\mathrm{b}(\mathrm{m})=\sum_i\mathrm{e}_i(\mathrm{f})(\mathrm{m})\mathrm{b}^i(\mathrm{~m})\text{,}

(4.1)

where b is a tuple-valued coefficient function on the manifold.
When expressed in a coordinate basis, the coefficients that specify
the direction of the vector are naturally expressed as functions
bi of the coordinates of the manifold point. Here, the coefficient
function b is more naturally expressed as a tuple-valued function
on the manifold. If b is the coefficient function expressed as a
function of coordinates, then b = b ○ X is the coefficient function
as a function on the manifold.

The coordinate-basis forms have a simple definition in terms of
the coordinate-basis vectors and the coordinates (equation 3.40).
With this choice, the dual property, equation (3.41), holds without
further fuss. More generally, we can define a basis of one-forms e
that is dual to e in that the property

\tilde{\mathbf{e}}^i\left(\mathbf{e}_j\right)(\mathrm{m})=\delta_j^i

(4.2)

is satisfied, analogous to property (3.41). Figure 4.1 illustrates
the duality of basis fields.

1 We cannot say if the basis vectors are orthogonal or normalized until we
introduce a metric.