# 1. Shipping as a vector for marine IAS List of Philippine Ports is in Appendix 3

Shipping remains as the only scientifically
documented pathway for marine
biological invasion in the Philippines with
the introduction and invasion of the
South American mussel Mytella strigata
(Vallejo et al. 2017). This invasive was first
recorded from the South Harbor of
Manila in 2014 and has been known to
have spread throughout Manila Bay, to
Lingayen Gulf, Aparri, Cagayan and
Batangas Port in the Philippines. It has
since then reported in Singapore, Taiwan,
Hong Kong, India, Malaysia, the Gulf of
Thailand, and Sri Lanka.

Figure 2. Foulers from the South Harbor of Manila Bay.
Photo by SAILS-PORTEC Manila Bay

Mytella was likely spread through hull fouling and ballast water release. In the Philippines its
spread to other ports was likely through small vessel hull fouling as the first adult samples were
recorded from the fishing boat FV Ocean in 2015 which was docked in Manila Bay. An intensive
monitoring of the South Harbor area in 2014 resulted in the detection of the first cohort of
recruits in Manila Bay. The likely first introduction by ballast water release or by biofouling was
in December 2013 and the first cohort of recruits was detected in July 2014.

There are at least 15 marine non-indigenous species ship hull fouling recorded from Manila Bay's
South Harbor (Vallejo et al. 2019; Trinidad et al 2017.) Only Mytella is considered invasive enough
to have wide scale ecological and economic impacts. The most numerous species is the well-
studied Hydroides elegans, which is a known ship fouler with a present pantropical distribution.

6