of any individual to color their decisions, even when
they're acting in good faith.

- 路 Credentials: Academic credentials tend to
represent a significant commitment of time towards
gaining mastery of a subject, and therefore requiring
a particular degree may increase the likelihood of
accurate information. However, not all groups are
equally represented in higher education. Degree
completion is uneven across race and income factors
(among others), making academia not
demographically representative of our society as a
whole. Some perspectives are therefore
systematically underrepresented in groups with
advanced degrees.
路 Peer Review: Peer review sometimes only results in
collaborative improvements to a work. It can also
prevent the publication of very obviously flawed or
poorly executed or analyzed research. Very new or
radical ideas may be initially rejected because they
are such a departure from existing dogma. Peer
review is largely a practice of academia, therefore has
the same exclusionary problems mentioned in the
credentials section. It is possible for individual
reviewers to act in a biased or unethical way to
prevent the publication of some works.
路 Fact Checking: Not a lot of downside here. Let me
know if your students come up with anything good.
路 Domains: For some top level domains (mostly just
.gov and .edu) looking at the domain provides some
assurance that the web content there is an official
communication of a particular institution. There
really isn't any problem with domains excluding

106 | Instructor Resources