2. The Lost Homeland

gesture in honour of local culture. Few of the artefacts were authentically
part of this area. It told us nothing of any interest or with any authority.
We wondered whose culture we were looking at.

At the central railway station, we tried to question officials, in German and
English, about the location of Steinkirche. But only Polish was spoken at
the information office and other counters. Nor could we locate the correct
train line on the information screens.

On our walk back to the centre of town, past the dilapidated theatre where
my mother had attended performances, John spotted another bookshop.
Surprisingly it was trading busily on a Polish Catholic Sunday. It sold old
maps and books. We found old pictures of Breslau labelled in Polish and
English. We found descriptions in both Polish and English of Neumarkt
Platz (Novi Targ). Various maps showed clear plans of its location. They
also showed the Neptune fountain I had been seeking. For centuries it had
a conspicuous place in town maps as a well drawing water from the Oder,
whose tributaries flowed together and separated the town into different
quarters, spanned by a multitude of bridges.

I was thrilled. Before this find, my family had begun to question whether
the fountain had actually existed. 'You and your fountain!' they cried.
But I always knew it was there, in my memory and beyond.

When we walked to Novi Targ, we found the old houses by the square
had been destroyed totally by the War. So, to my disappointment, had
the Neptune fountain . In Microcosm, his history of Wroclaw, Norman
Davies tells how, after the War, the rubble of Breslau had been removed
in trainloads to rebuild Warsaw in its original style. Some fine Breslau
buildings left standing by War were even knocked down for their
old bricks.

I viewed this horrible information as being akin to the punishment Dante
dished out to sinners in his Purgatory. Atonement was to be made only
by suffering punishment that fitted the spirit of a crime.

We then looked for the air-raid shelters in which my grandmother and
aunt Else had sheltered from the fire-bombs that rained down on the city
in early 1945.

11