74

BAIRD

The H O N E Y - M O O N .

FIGURE 4.3
The Honey-Moon [graphic]. Mezzotint,
hand-colored.
PRINTED FOR CARINGTON BOWLES,
LONDON, JUNE 1777

this list, Richard Walker, apothecary to the Prince
of Wales, adds Arabic henna, manna, and rhu-
barb.34 The influence of the Arabian medicine first
on the Greek, then on the French and English phy-
sicians, although often decried, brought an influx
of medicinal plants from or through the Arabian

Peninsula to Europe, where they were customarily
used in tinctures, purges, and other more or less
effective elixirs.35 Alternately, incense was used for
its love-inducing and rejuvenating properties, as
seen in an 1787 etching by James Gillray represent-
ing a group of five elderly women of fashion at-
tending an altar of Love (fig. 4.5).36

Book. Interspersed with Some Occasional Observations
on Some of the Most Celebrated Modern Dispensatories,
and the Present State of Pharmacy (London: Printed
and Sold by R. Willock, 1744). This volume contains a
wealth of detailed recipes for various afflictions, albeit
providing few specifics as to what was treated by using
them.
34 Richard Walker, Memoirs of Medicine; Including a
Sketch of Medical History from the Earliest Accounts to
the Eighteenth Century (London: Printed for J. Johnson,
1799).

35 For the influence of the Arabian medicine on Western
Europe, see volume 3 of John Astruc's Treatise on the
Diseases of Women, in Which Is Attempted to Join a Just
Theory to the Most Safe and Approved Practice... (Lon-
don: Printed for J. Nourse, 1767). For detailed recipes of
medicines containing ingredients of Arabic origin, see
Pharmacopoia Reformata cited above.
36 Arabian incense is made by using frankincense or gum
Arabic resin mixed with sweet-smelling essential oils,
such as myrrh and oud.