800
714
700 661
602
year
600
per 516
490
500 466 468
440
tonnes
396 392
400 369
342 334
of
290 289
269
300 255
Millions
231
177 174
200
129
100
0
Middle East Sub-Saharan Latin America North South Europe and East Asia
and Africa and America Asia Central Asia and
North Africa Caribbean Pacific
■ 2016 ■ 2030 ■ 2050

(Kaza et al. 2018)

Canada is currently the world's largest producer of MSW per capita. At slightly more than 36 metric
tons per person per year, Canadians generate roughly 10 tons more MSW per person annually than
the next highest garbage producers, Bulgarians and Americans (Tiseo, 2021). Summiting a list like this
is obviously not in any country's best interest-there are no kudos for reaching the top of the heap,
so to speak. Is it therefore possible that those nations reaching the top will take the lead in reversing
course?

Halifax is one Canadian city that apparently has. On August 1st, 2015, the city began providing a
"green nudge" to citizens living in its urban core area with the introduction of the Clear Bag Policy, a
policy designed to nudge households toward more responsible sorting of their waste, which, in turn,
would result in an overall reduction in the total amount of waste generated. As Akbulut-Yuksel and
Boulatoff point out, under the new policy, households were mandated to replace their black garbage
bags, traditionally used for the disposal of their refuse, with clear, transparent bags. The Clear Bag
Policy allowed households to put out the same number of garbage bags at the curb (six every other
week), but all waste destined for the landfill was required to be disposed of in a clear bag (except for
one dark bag permitted for privacy's sake). This allowed waste collectors to screen and refuse any bags
containing materials that should otherwise have been diverted from the landfill, such as recyclables,
food waste, and hazardous waste. Clear bags also made apparent to everyone, neighbors and passersby
alike, a given household's waste-generation and disposal habits.33

To test the Clear Bag Policy's impact on a typical household's generation of MSW, Akbulut-Yuksel
and Boulatoff designed a quasi-experiment spanning the period from January 6, 2014, to July 28,
2017, with January 6, 2014, to July 31, 2015, serving as the pre-treatment period and August 1, 2015,
to July 28, 2017, serving as the post-treatment period. MSW data collected during this time span

33. As Akbulut-Yuksel and Boulatoff point out, Halifax households are required to sort waste in four ways: (1) recyclable
containers (plastics, glass, and aluminum) are put in a transparent blue bag, (2) paper and cardboard are put in a separate
bag, (3) organic food waste goes in a green bin provided by the city, and (4) the remaining waste (refuse) goes into garbage
bags. Recyclable materials are collected each week, while garbage and organic waste are each collected every other week on
opposite weeks (except in the summer months when, thank goodness, organic waste is collected on a weekly basis).

234 ARTHUR J. CAPLAN