very much interested to know more about plastics as well as the plastics types that can
be reused or recycled. Almost all respondents (87.8% ) are interested in approaches to
recycle plastics. 87% (20) are interested in improving waste management systems in
their LGUs.

d. Awareness of Plastics Ordinance. About 68% of respondents know that there is a city
ordinance on plastics, while 52% are aware of the provincial plastic ordinance. 9% do not
know of any ordinance and 17% do not know whether or not there is a plastic ordinance.
In the same way, only 70% knows of the implementation of an ordinance regulating or
prohibiting Single Use Plastics. 30% of the respondents are not aware of the ordinance.

# 6.2 Waste Management

- a. Waste Management Fee Collection. At the Barangay level, only 5 respondent
barangays - Sampaloc II, H-2, Salitran-II, San Roque-Sta. Cristina II, and Salawag - collect
waste management fees.

- b. Waste Management Budget. Majority of the respondents (44%) do not know the
budget allocation of their LGUS for waste management. 12% of respondents replied that
their LGUs have no allocation for waste management while 32% of respondents replied
that their budget allocation is below 5% of their LGU budget. Only 8% of respondents
replied that their budget allocation for waste management is between 10-20% if the LGU
budget. See Figure 20.

44%
■ Below 5% of the LGU budget
■ 5% to below 10%
■ 10% to below 20%
12%
■ 20% and over
8% ■ No Allocation
32% ■ I don't know

Figure 20. Percentage of LGU Budget Allocated for Waste Management

c. Waste Collection and Segregation. For 70% of the respondents, wastes are collected
by the city government. 35% responded that barangays collect their wastes and still,

Study on Plastics Use and Waste Management in the Food Service Industry 49