CHAPTER 2

# Narratives in Chuj

THIS COLLECTION OF SIX narratives told in Chuj demonstrates the
broad variety of stories people tell one another and the variety of sources
of those stories: personal narratives, legendary events, mythological
tales, and stories borrowed from other cultures. All were recorded by me during
field work on Chuj from 1964 to 1965. (See the Archive of the Indigenous Lan-
guages of Latin America, www.ailla.utexas.org, for these and other samples of
Chuj speech recorded during field work; AILLA reference codes for each text
are given below and at the head of each transcription.)

# Introduction to the Texts

Two of the stories are ultimately of foreign origin, but their origins are not the
same. In one case, the story known to the narrator as An Old Man Whose Son
Killed Him [CAC 002 R022], the story clearly comes from the European tra-
dition, and must have been introduced to the Chuj by schoolteachers. It is the
classic Greek tale of a couple whose child is destined to kill his father and how
that came about, including the solution to a famous riddle: What animal walks
on four legs at dawn, on two legs at noon, and on three legs in the evening?

The other tale, Coyote and Rabbit [CAC 002 R027], is probably ultimately
of African origin, although some of its episodes are traditional in the American
South and may have been introduced secondhand to the Chuj. This is the series
of incidents that make up the Br'er Rabbit stories, stories that reflected earlier
African tales involving Hyena instead of Fox (Diarassouba 2007). Here the story
features Coyote instead of either Fox or Hyena. Coyote stories and stories of
Rabbit Trickster abound in the native New World, and some of the episodes may
be of American origin, adapted to the framework of the African stories. Some ep-
isodes have a local flavor (such as misty mountains) and are likely of local origin.

A third story, Friend of the Animals [CAC 002 R020], expresses such a
universal theme that it could possibly be of foreign origin as well, but it has

22