Overcoming Barriers to Filipino Women's Political Representation 11

- · Republic Act No. 9501: Magna Carta for Micro, Small, and
Medium Enterprises (May 23, 2008)

- · Republic Act No. 9262: Anti-Violence Against Women and
their Children Act of 2004 (March 8, 2004)

- · Republic Act No. 9208 (May 26, 2003), as amended by
Republic Act No. 10364 (February 6, 2013): Anti-Trafficking in
Persons Act of 2003

- · Republic Act No. 9178: Barangay Micro Business Enterprises
Act of 2002 (November 13, 2002)

- · Republic Act No. 8972: Solo Parent's Welfare Act (November
7, 2000)

- · Republic Act No. 8505: Rape Victim Assistance and Protection
Act (February 13, 1998)

- · Republic Act No. 8504: Philippine AIDS Prevention and
Control Act of 1998 (February 13, 1998)

- · Republic Act No. 8353: Anti-Rape Law of 1997 (September 30,
1997)

- · Republic Act No. 7877: Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995
(February 14, 1995)

During the first Aquino administration (1986-1992), three women
sectoral representatives were appointed in Congress. Yet feminist
activists such as Teresita Quintos-Deles and Jurgette Honculada's
appointments were blocked by the House Committee on Appointments
(Abao and Yang 2001, 19).

While reliable electoral data during the Marcos regime is
unavailable, it is safe to argue that the repressive regime hampered
the participation of women in formal politics given the widespread
militarization and electoral fraud characterizing the dictatorship. And
even with the legal framework guaranteed by the transition, women
found it difficult to enter formal politics, despite women's consistently
high voter turnout during elections (Table 1).