MOHAVE COMMUNITY COLLEGE

BIO181

<table>
 <tr>
  <td>
   Saccharometer
  </td>
  <td>
   DI Water
  </td>
  <td>
   Glucose Solution
  </td>
  <td>
   Yeast Suspension
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   24 ml
  </td>
  <td>
   0 ml
  </td>
  <td>
   4 ml
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   3
  </td>
  <td>
   12 ml
  </td>
  <td>
   12 ml
  </td>
  <td>
   4 ml
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   4
  </td>
  <td>
   4 ml
  </td>
  <td>
   12 ml
  </td>
  <td>
   12 ml
  </td>
 </tr>
</table>


# Employing Steps in the Scientific Method:

- 1. Record the Question that is being investigated in this experiment.

- 2. Record a Hypothesis for the question stated above.

- 3. Predict the results of the experiment based on your hypothesis (if/then).

- 4. Perform the experiment below and collect your data.

# Procedure:

- 1. Prepare yeast suspension: Add 7 grams yeast to 50 ml warm tap water. Stir to mix.
Alternatively, you can use the yeast suspension from Part 2. Optional: Add a few drops of
red food coloring to the yeast to increase contrast, allowing easier measuring of the
height of yeast in saccharometers.
2. Label 4 test tubes and 4 saccharometers # 1- 4. Use a transfer pipette to add the
appropriate amount of glucose and distilled water listed in Table 2 to the corresponding
labeled test tubes.
3. Use a transfer pipette to add the appropriate amount of yeast solution listed in Table 1 to
the corresponding labeled test tubes. It is important to work carefully and quickly after
adding the yeast solution to the glucose and water.

- 4. Carefully pour the contents of the test tubes into the correspondingly labeled
saccharometer, ensuring that the solutions are well mixed.

- 5. Carefully tilt the saccharometers to allow any air bubbles that are trapped in the arms of
the vertical tube to escape.

- 6. Begin the timer for the experiment and measure the size of any bubbles (in mm) that are
trapped in the vertical arms of the saccharometers. Record this measurement as the 0 time
point.

- 7. Position the saccharometers on the large plastic tray, positioning them around a plastic
weigh boat to catch any fermentation overflow that may occur.

59