Overcoming Barriers to Filipino Women's Political Representation 15

the way for women to enter the House of Representatives. In 2019,
20 women from party lists have contributed to the increase in female
legislators. However, the Party-List Law's implementation has been
controversial owing to the entry of political dynasties and traditional
politicians. The ideal that it serve as the gateway to political power of
disadvantaged groups has been lost due to vague provisions in the
law and subsequent Supreme Court decisions. The party list system
has also been "co-opted by the traditional political system or have
become the training ground for future influence-peddling traditional
politicians" (Tigno 2019). In other words, it has deviated from the idea
of proportional representation practiced in other countries. Dynastic
families took advantage of the system's flaws and used them to field
relatives, including some women, to expand their political power.
However, recent interviews with legislators from progressive party
lists demonstrate a better understanding of women's issues than some
representatives elected from single-member districts (Encinas-Franco
2022, 157).

Table 2. Women-Members of the House of Representatives
per Region, 2007-2019

<table>
 <tr>
  <td>
   REGIONS
  </td>
  <td>
   2007-2010
  </td>
  <td>
   2010-2013
  </td>
  <td>
   2016-2019
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   National Capital Region
  </td>
  <td>
   9
  </td>
  <td>
   8
  </td>
  <td>
   5
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   Cordillera Autonomous Region
  </td>
  <td>
   1
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   1
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   I - Ilocos Region
  </td>
  <td>
   1
  </td>
  <td>
   5
  </td>
  <td>
   4
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   II - Cagayan Valley
  </td>
  <td>
   1
  </td>
  <td>
   3
  </td>
  <td>
   5
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   III - Central Luzon
  </td>
  <td>
   8
  </td>
  <td>
   9
  </td>
  <td>
   11
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   IVA - CALABARZON
  </td>
  <td>
   4
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   11
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   IVB - MIMAROPA
  </td>
  <td>
   1
  </td>
  <td>
   1
  </td>
  <td>
   1
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   V - Bicol Region
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   0
  </td>
  <td>
   4
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   VI - Western Visayas
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   3
  </td>
  <td>
   3
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   VII - Central Visayas
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   3
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   VIII - Eastern Visayas
  </td>
  <td>
   3
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   3
  </td>
 </tr>
</table>
