# Replace

l. Replace Plastics with Recyclable Materials. Plastics can be replaced by material
made from polypropylene, a material type that is 100% recyclable. However, recyclable
materials should have a forward linkage - link to a recycler who is willing to take on
the recyclables. Paper-based wrappers are another alternative for bagels and sandwich
papers. Containers and packaging can use plastics with a certain percentage of recycled
content and designed to be recyclable or reusable. Highly recyclable packaging is of
little benefit if it is not disposed of correctly. The success of a recyclable package is an
equal demand from recycling companies through improved recyclability of packaging
and investments in efficient recycling facilities and systems. This requires investment and
innovation since quality and availability are still often a stumbling block for companies
to use recycled plastic. The recyclability of plastic packaging can often be improved by:

- · choosing a common type of plastic (such as PE, PP or PET);
· choosing a common color (white or transparent); and
· avoiding combinations of materials, such as plastic windows in cardboard
packaging. Watermarking technology is also being developed so that packaging
can be more easily recognized by sorters.

# Trash

m. Waste Segregation and Segregated Bins. Shakey's Philippines implementation of
waste segregation and 3R (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) in its corporate office is one good
testament of compliance to RA 9003. The country's premier pizza restaurant has installed
"Stop Before You Drop" trash bins for the implementation of company-wide proper
waste management. The bins are labeled to indicate the different types of waste to aid in
proper disposal and culture development of its employees. Waste collected are weighed
on a daily basis to aid in monitoring wastages and to map out more waste management
initiatives.56

n. In-store Sorting and Recycling Bins.
McDonalds has installed sorting and
recycling points in select restaurants in
its markets. It also improved its recycling
bin signage to make the recycling process
easier to understand. McDonald's Germany,
Austria, Czech Republic and Slovakia on the
other hand, collect customer waste to sort for
recycling. initiatives.57

You

Figure 32. In-store Sorting and Recycling Bins,
McDonalds

56 https://www.shakeyspizza.ph/images/asm-2021/PIZZA_ASM_2020_Report.pdf
57 https://corporate.mcdonalds.com/corpmcd/our-purpose-and-impact/our-planet/packaging-and-waste.html

76 Study on Plastics Use and Waste Management in the Food Service Industry