# Prologue

# Programming and Understanding

One way to become aware of the precision required to unam-
biguously communicate a mathematical idea is to program it for
a computer. Rather than using canned programs purely as an
aid to visualization or numerical computation, we use computer
programming in a functional style to encourage clear thinking.
Programming forces us to be precise and unambiguous, without
forcing us to be excessively rigorous. The computer does not toler-
ate vague descriptions or incomplete constructions. Thus the act
of programming makes us keenly aware of our errors of reasoning
or unsupported conclusions.1

Although this book is about differential geometry, we can show
how thinking about programming can help in understanding in a
more elementary context. The traditional use of Leibniz's notation
and Newton's notation is convenient in simple situations, but in
more complicated situations it can be a serious handicap to clear
reasoning.

A mechanical system is described by a Lagrangian function of
the system state (time, coordinates, and velocities). A motion of
the system is described by a path that gives the coordinates for
each moment of time. A path is allowed if and only if it satisfies
the Lagrange equations. Traditionally, the Lagrange equations are
written

\frac{d}{dt}\frac{\partialL}{\partial\dot{q}}-\frac{\partialL}{\partialq}=0.

What could this expression possibly mean?

Let's try to write a program that implements Lagrange equa-
tions. What are Lagrange equations for? Our program must take
a proposed path and give a result that allows us to decide if the
path is allowed. This is already a problem; the equation shown
above does not have a slot for a path to be tested.

1 The idea of using computer programming to develop skills of clear thinking
was originally advocated by Seymour Papert. An extensive discussion of this
idea, applied to the education of young children, can be found in Papert [13].