CIRCULATING THINGS, CIRCULATING STEREOTYPES

83

The Three Pigeons
J G High-Change in Bond Street. on la Politesse du Grande Monde. 417

FIGURE 4.10 James Gillray, High Change in Bond Street; ou la politesse du grande monde [graphic]. Etching on wove paper,
hand-colored.
PUBLISHED BY H. HUMPHREY, LONDON, 1796

meant to bewilder the viewer. Satins, silks, ivory,
gigantic eggs, and "artificial" apples describe, in
fact, the things of the trade: expensive and rare
fabrics, on the one hand, strange collectibles and
exotica, on the other. Lavish dresses and embel-
lishments become insignia of wealth, power, and
nonconformity, of a way of life outside the eco-
nomic constraints of the Western civilization. In-
terestingly, such projections were internalized by
eighteenth-century British subjects in the fashion-
able "Turquerie" that allowed the wearers to dis-
play their wealth by wearing Oriental dress, tur-
bans, ostrich plumes, long capes, veils, and flattering
shalvars (figs. 4.9 and 4.10). Another infusion of Ori-
entalism in the West, the tradition of painting Euro-
pean figures in Middle Eastern dress, becomes a
form of cultural cross-dressing meant to suggest

misuse of power or excessive wealth (fig. 4.11).
Such cultural imports are difficult to be under-
stood, to use Said's qualification, as expressions of
the Occident's cultural "antipathy"84 toward the
Orient; rather, they reflect the West's attraction to a
space that connotes difference understood as ex-
traordinariness rather than inferiority.

Besides their connotations of magic, exoticism,
and wealth, the things in the Arabian Nights are also
rich bearers of cultural information: as Marina War-
ner correctly pointed out, "stories are lodged in
goods"85 and as such, they expand the reader's

84 Said, Orientalism, 260.
85 Marina Warner, introduction to Stranger Magic:
Charmed States and the Arabian Nights (London: Chat-
to & Windus, 2011), 8.