Prologue

xvii

# Functional Abstraction

But this corrected use of Leibniz notation is ugly. We had to
introduce extraneous symbols (q and q) in order to indicate the ar-
gument position specifying the partial derivative. Nothing would
change here if we replaced q and q by a and b.3 We can sim-
plify the notation by admitting that the partial derivatives of the
Lagrangian are themselves new functions, and by specifying the
particular partial derivative by the position of the argument that
is varied

\frac{d}{dl}\left(\left(\partial_2L\right)\left(t,w(t),\frac{d}{dl}w(t)\right)\right)-\left(\partial_1L\right)\left(t,w(t),\frac{d}{dl}w(t)\right)=0,

where ∂iL is the function which is the partial derivative of the
function L with respect to the ith argument.4

Two different notions of derivative appear in this expression.
The functions ∂2L and ∂1L, constructed from the Lagrangian
L, have the same arguments as L. The derivative d/dt is an
expression derivative. It applies to an expression that involves
the variable t and it gives the rate of change of the value of the
expression as the value of the variable t is varied.

These are both useful interpretations of the idea of a derivative.
But functions give us more power. There are many equivalent
ways to write expressions that compute the same value. For
example 1/(1/r1 + 1/r2) = (r1r2)/(r1 + r2). These expressions
compute the same function of the two variables r1 and r2. The
first expression fails if r1 = 0 but the second one gives the right
value of the function. If we abstract the function, say as Π(r1, r2),
we can ignore the details of how it is computed. The ideas become
clearer because they do not depend on the detailed shape of the
expressions.

3 That the symbols q and q can be replaced by other arbitrarily chosen non-
conflicting symbols without changing the meaning of the expression tells us
that the partial derivative symbol is a logical quantifier, like forall and exists
(∀ and ∃).
4The argument positions of the Lagrangian are indicated by indices starting
with zero for the time argument.