1
W
0.8
M
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
4 3 2 1
4=Worst quartile 1=Best

(Niederle and Vesterlund 2007)

In other words, while women shy away from competition, men are drawn to it.

Turning to Task 4, recall that although this choice is very similar to that of Task 3, Task 4's choice
eliminates the prospect of having to subsequently participate in a competition. Thus, only in Task 3
could a gender gap in preference for competition have played a role in the choice of compensation
scheme. As the figure below shows, there is no statistically significant gender gap in the choice of
compensation scheme in Task 4 based upon perceived ranking in Task 1. A higher percentage of
women than men who guessed their Task 1 ranking to be low (i.e., at level "3") chose the tournament
scheme in Task 4, while the percentages were reversed for those participants who guessed their Task 1
rankings to be high (at levels "1" and "2"). But because the two lines in the figure remain close together,
these differences are not statistically significant (i.e., we should treat the groups' respective choices as
being no different from one another).

1
W
0.8
M
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
4 3 2 1
4 = Worst rank 1 = Best rank

(Niederle and Vesterlund 2007)

This result from Task 4 cements the authors' finding that women shy away from actual competition
slated to occur at a future point in time, not implicit competition based upon their interpretations of
how their past performance compares with others.10

10. In a related study of the performances of men and women in professional judo fights for bronze medals (of all things!),
Cohen-Zada et al. (2017) find that men's performances are significantly affected by what the authors' call "psychological
momentum", while women's is not. Psychological momentum is defined as the tendency of an outcome (such as a win in an
initial judo match) to be followed by a similar outcome (a win in a subsequent match) that is not caused by any strategic
incentives of the players. The authors point out that this result is consistent with evidence in the biological literature that

BEHAVIORAL ECONOMICS PRACTICUM 111