tweets, videos) inciting violence towards
religious minorities, ethnic minorities, the
LGBTI community, and women and girls.
Forty-four per cent of respondents had
"sometimes" seen extremist social media
content inciting violence towards religious
minorities, with 31% seeing this content
"very often".

Both men and women acknowledged that
they had "sometimes" seen this content on
social media (62% and 41%, respectively).
Indonesia was the country from which most
respondents had viewed this content "very
often" (50%). When collapsing the "always"
and "very often" categories, 41% of Instagram
users had often seen intolerant content,
followed by 36% of WhatsApp users and
34% of Facebook users. Among the Twitter
users in the sample, 48% had seen intolerant
content towards religious minorities.

When asked about how often social media
content was inciting violence towards
ethnic minorities, 46% of respondents had
"sometimes" seen this type of extremist
social media content inciting violence
towards ethnic minorities whereas only
27% have seen this content rarely or
never. Women have seen such content
more frequently than men (90%), and
Indonesia was the country from which most

respondents had seen this content "very
often" (58%). Users of Facebook, WhatsApp
and Instagram acknowledged that they had
seen this content "very often" (26%, 31% and
35% respectively).

Thirty-nine per cent of respondents
acknowledged that they had "sometimes"'
seen social media content inciting violence
towards the LGBTI community. Women saw
this type of content more frequently than
men (84%), and Indonesia was the country
from which more respondents saw this
content with a higher frequency (53% saw
such content "always" and "very often").
Participants in the survey observed intolerant
content directed towards the LGBTI
community. For example, one participant
from the Philippines observed that,

"
There were instances when women
were humiliated in public and on
social media after they were labelled
as part of the LGBTQ+ community. The
comments on posts regarding them
were mostly commending their public
humiliation (cutting their hair) instead
of condemning the act".
"

Figure 3: Frequency of viewing extremist social media inciting violence toward women and girls

53,9%
■ Male
■ Female
35,7%
30,4% 30,8%
28,6%
7,7% 7,7%
5,4%
· · · · · OFTEN · · · · · · · · · · · · SOMETIMES · · · · · · . · · · · · RARELY · · · · · · · · · · · · · · NEVER · · · · ·

Gender Analysis of Violent Extremism and the Impact of COVID-19 on Peace and Security in ASEAN

29