Other advice that might smooth the way for this exercise
is to remind students right before they start that we aren't
interested in what these organizations' websites say about
themselves, but what they can learn about them from the
rest of the internet. Encourage use of Wikipedia for this
type of source research. Encourage them to slow down and
to practice "click restraint" once they have Googled one of
these orgs. What can they learn from looking at just the
search results page, without clicking through to anything?
What is the overall impression from a variety of results?

- 路 Center for Consumer Freedom: Many of the Google
search results (with or without including the search
term funding) indicate this is astroturing. A look at
the Wikipedia page tells us that this org was started
by a pretty well known PR guy and the sidebar lists
their focus as "represents the interests of restaurant
and food companies" and their method as "lobbying."
路 National Consumers League: Students may note
that it has been around since 1899, has no critical
results on the first page of Google results, and even
has an entry in the Encyclopedia Britannica.
路 One Fair Wage: a legitimately grass-roots effort to
raise the minimum wage for restaurant workers.
路 Save Our Tips: This is one case where adding the
word funding to the search helps a bit. If we do that
we find sources indicating that this group is funded in
part by the National Restaurant Association and a
conservative strategy and consulting group. Not
what you would expect for a grassroots effort lead by
waitstaff.

104 | Instructor Resources