8 Encinas Franco and Laguna

# Filipino Women in Electoral Politics

The nature and extent of Filipino women's political participation
is a product of the country's colonial history, martial law, and
democratization post-1986. Historians argue that Spain's strong
Catholic traditions ushered in patriarchal norms and practices that were
not present in the pre-Hispanic period. National hero, Jose Rizal, has
documented this in his "Letter to the Women of Malolos," praising the
women for advocating their right to education. Historians also found
proof of women's contribution to the Philippine revolution (Camagay
1998). Decades later, the suffragist movement ushered in one of the first
national issues to have brought Filipino women together. It was a hard-
fought battle; the movement had to contend with staunch opposition
from antisuffragists in the Constitutional Convention that drafted the
1935 Constitution. The reluctance was expected because only 21-year-
old Filipino men had been allowed to vote during the time. They framed
their opposition based on traditional notions of womanhood and their
role in the private sphere, foremost of which is motherhood. Another
key argument against female suffrage was the idea that politics is
supposed to be "dirty" and that this would taint families if women took
part in politics. The assumptions catered to the age-old public-private
divide, strongly suggesting that only men are qualified to occupy the
former.

Eventually, the 1935 Constitution granted women suffrage on the
condition that more than 300,000 women would vote affirmatively in a
plebiscite. When signing the law paving the way for the said plebiscite,
President Manuel Quezon had this to say to Filipino men: "Are you
going to deprive our women of the opportunity to say how their lives
are going to be regulated and is it fair for us to presume that men can
always speak in this country for women?" (Official Gazette 1936). In
April 1937, more than 400,000 women voted in favor of their right to
vote and participate in political life. In 1946 and 1947, Filipinos elected
the first woman member of the House of Representatives, and senator,
respectively. Nonetheless, data from 1946 to 1992 indicate an uphill
climb. For instance, in the 1949 and 1953 elections for the House of
Representatives, only one woman was elected out of the 100 positions.