16 Encinas Franco and Laguna

<table>
 <tr>
  <td>
   IX - Zamboanga Peninsula
  </td>
  <td>
   4
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   4
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   X - Northern Mindanao
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   XI - Davao Region
  </td>
  <td>
   1
  </td>
  <td>
   3
  </td>
  <td>
   5
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   XII - SOCCSKSARGEN
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   1
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   XIII - Caraga
  </td>
  <td>
   1
  </td>
  <td>
   3
  </td>
  <td>
   3
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   ARMM
  </td>
  <td>
   1
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
  <td>
   2
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   Party-List
  </td>
  <td>
   10
  </td>
  <td>
   15
  </td>
  <td>
   20
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   TOTAL (w/ Party- List)
  </td>
  <td>
   55
  </td>
  <td>
   66
  </td>
  <td>
   88
  </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>
   TOTAL (w/o Party- List)
  </td>
  <td>
   45
  </td>
  <td>
   51
  </td>
  <td>
   68
  </td>
 </tr>
</table>


Source: HOR 2022. Computations made by the authors.

Overall, the abovementioned situation indicates that Filipino
women have gradually increased their presence in formal politics.
In Asia, the Philippines and Taiwan are the only countries above the
global average of 24.5 percent of women in parliament (Liu 2021).
However, challenges remain as the increased participation of women
comes from dysfunctional features of the country's political system:
political dynasties and the Party-List law. Nonetheless, not all women
from these groups are necessarily averse to women's issues.

# Barriers to Filipino Women's Participation

Previous studies have identified political, economic, and cultural
factors that impede women's participation in politics. However, context
still matters since the perception of women's role in societies and the
evolution of political systems differ. The following section examines
some of these barriers.

The Philippine electoral system's "first-past-the-post" electoral
type, coupled with the lack of well-developed political parties, inhibits
women's entry into politics. Encinas-Franco (2021) argues that "[w]
ithout party discipline and institutionalized rules within parties, one