At Home in Exile

We received the clear impression from grim customs officials and money-
changers at the border that we had entered a part of the world still not
entirely recovered from post-War economic depression. Roadside stands
sold plaster garden statues, especially gnomes, and other wares were also
for sale, judging by the surreptitious lifting of skirts to reveal totally bare
flesh, from women sheltering under their umbrellas. I wondered where
they would take their truck driver customers in a place where there seemed
to be only road and forest.

Anthea's navigation skills took us promptly to the clean and pleasant
Tumski Hotel on the Sand Island near the oldest part of Wroclaw. I was
immensely moved when I found that my room overlooked a canal of the
Oder. This was a place of which mother had often spoken. Maria on the
Sand (die Sandkirche) is still there, one of the large old Gothic red-brick
churches that escaped bombing.

That Saturday afternoon, too late for lunch, we sampled Polish beer and
vodka. We explored the famous Rynek, the central seventeenth-century
market square with its famed Gothic town hall where American soldiers
had stolen the gold from the astrological clock. The bombed-out buildings
had been restored, but they were too garishly painted to revive a sense
of their history. The adjoining salt square now mostly sells flowers.

We wondered at how few smiling faces there were, and were puzzled
by how little German or English anyone spoke. Why was there so little
tourism? Only a pair of elegant teenagers had fluent German. We turned
down their offers of pornographic pictures and sexual experiences.

We covered enough of the area to get a strong impression of a once-
lively city devastated by War and hastily repaired. These were convenient
reconstructions, done without an eye to matching styles.

I was especially anxious to find out where Neumarkt Platz had been.
That evening at the hotel, I kept going to the window and trying to
imagine my mother as a young woman taking an evening stroll with
a companion along the banks of the Oder. But this was autumn. Thick
mists hung above the water. Few people were out walking.

On Sunday we set out seriously to find the location of the old square.
We walked through once-stately streets, past the Metropole Hotel from
where Hitler had addressed the crowds, to the Ethnographic Museum.
This proved disappointing. The contents of two rooms were a mere

10