# Chapter 3

# Numerical differentiation

# 3.1 Introduction

Everyone who possesses a car and/or a driver's licence is familiar with speeding tickets. In
The Netherlands, speeding tickets are usually processed in a fully automated fashion, and the
perpetrator will receive the tickets within a couple of weeks after the offence. The Dutch police
optimized the procedures of speed control such that this effort has become very profitable to the
Dutch government. Various strategies for speed control are carried out by police forces, which
are all based on the position of the vehicle at consecutive times. The actual velocity follows from
the first-order derivative of the position of the vehicle with respect to time. Since no explicit
formula for this position is available, the velocity can only be estimated using an approximation
of the velocity based on several discrete vehicle positions at discrete times. This motivates the use
of approximate derivatives, also called numerical derivatives. If the police want to know whether
the offender drove faster before speed detection (in other words, whether the perpetrator hit the
brakes after having seen the police patrol), or whether the driver was already accelerating, then
they are also interested in the acceleration of the 'bad guy'. This acceleration can be estimated
using numerical approximations of the second-order derivative of the car position with respect
to time.

Since the time-interval of recording is nonzero, the velocity is not determined exactly in general.
In this chapter, the resulting error, referred to as the truncation error, is estimated using Taylor se-
ries. In most cases, the truncation error increases with an increasing size of the recording interval
(Sections 3.2 and 3.4). Next to the truncation error, the measurement of the position of the vehicle
is also prone to measurement errors. Issues that influence the results are, for example, paral-
lax, the measurement equipment, and in some cases even the performance of the police officer
(in car-videoing and laser control). These measurement errors provide an additional deteriora-
tion of the approximation of the speed and acceleration. The impact of measurement errors on
approximations of derivatives is treated in Section 3.3.

# 3.2 Simple difference formulae for the first derivative

Suppose f is a continuously differentiable function. The forward difference is defined as

Q_f(h)=\frac{f(x+h)-f(x)}{h},h>0\text{,}

in which h is called the step size. By definition,

\lim_{h\rightarrow0}\frac{f(x+h)-f(x)}{h}=f^{\prime}(x)
\end{aligned}\text{,}