# 2

# The Lost Homeland

Since the death of my mother, Elfriede, ten years ago, I have been haunted
by the desire to visit the homeland, the Heimat, that she never saw again
after her fifty years in Australia. In more ways than one, Germany had
become her lost homeland, the spiritual place of her ancestors from
which she was exiled. I sensed the pain she felt over the tangible loss
of connection to her own past. For me to be able to go so far away and
pay tribute to her German home in what is now Poland, to savour the
environment of her childhood, at first seemed impossible. I nevertheless
hoped for the opportunity to do so, although I expected to find all the
names of the places changed, and that people spoke a language I did not
understand. It would be confronting to go there, I thought.

When in 1997 I visited Vienna, my father's Austrian birth city, and after
that my German cousins in Germany, I was not regarded as a stranger.
Despite being an almost lifelong Australian, I spoke their language and
somehow belonged. I was accepted by people as someone who had come
home to reclaim my heritage. I could merge with crowds unobtrusively,
like a 'local'. The only subtle tremors of feeling generated by what people
are used to were shown up in my too-German ways for the Austrians,
and my too-Austrian ways for the Germans. The Austrians reacted more
firmly. This suggests that my mother's influence on me was strongest.

I was born in Turkey, north of Ankara, in 1935, and when I also went
there on my trip home, I was treated to a special welcome by each Turk
who found this out, from my passport or my conversation. My birth
in Turkey entitled me to Turkish citizenship. Naturally I was delighted,

5