# 10 THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT

# COPYRIGHT

# COPYRIGHT PROTECTS CREATIVE WORK - YOURS, MINE, EVERYONE'S!

1

We're all both consumers and creators of creative
work. As consumers, we watch movies, listen to
music, read books, and more! As creators, we
take photos, write songs, make videos, etc.

2

Copyright protects creative work, so people can't
generally copy or share or perform other
people's work without permission.

3

Copyright comes from the Constitution. Its purpose is
to promote more creativity. The idea is that letting
each of us decide what happens to our own creations
will encourage us to keep creating.

4

All creative work is protected by copyright as soon as
it's written down or recorded or saved-and not just
work by professional artists or big studios. Copyright
protects all of us-our photos on Instagram and
everything we write or create.

5

If you copy or share other people's creative
works without permission, that's called copyright
infringement. Examples:

- · Downloading music, movies, ebooks, or games
from illegal sources that operate without artists'
permission.
· Uploading your collection of music, movies,
ebooks, or games for your friends to copy.

Copyright infringement is illegal and carries
serious penalties.

# BUT COPYRIGHT DOESN'T COVER EVERYTHING

6

Copyright gives a lot of protection, but it also has
limitations. Not everything gets copyright protection.
Facts and ideas are not protected by copyright, neither
are US Government documents, like NASA photos and
reports by federal agencies.

7

Another limitation of copyright is "fair use," which
allows us to copy and re-use copyrighted work
without the artist's permission in certain, limited
ways that are still fair to the creator.

8

When you re-use portions of someone else's work
for a school project-like using images or songs for
a presentation in class-that's a fair use situation.
You don't need the author's permission.

9

Copyright protection doesn't last forever.
Eventually it expires, and the creative work falls
into the "public domain." Works in the public
domain are free to re-use and share however
you want.

10

cc

Some creators are happy to share their
creative work. They use a licensing system
for sharing called Creative Commons. You
can find millions of CC work that are free to
share or re-use.

Ⓒopyrightand Creativity.org

Ⓒ